**What is Deque?**

A deque is also known as a double-ended queue, is an ordered collection of items similar to the queue. It has two ends, a front and a rear.

It is a linear list where Insertion and Deletion can be performed from both the ends.

**Types of Deque :**

1.**Input Restricted :**

 Allowing some restrictions on Input Operations.
 
 =>Insertion can be allowed from only one end whereas deletion can be allowed from both the ends.

2.**Output Restricted :**

Allowing some operations on Output operations.

=>Deletion can be allowed from only one end whereas Insertion can be allowed from both the ends.

**Properties :**

Deque can be used both as Stack and Queue.

-->When it is used as Stack it follows Last In first Out (LIFO) manner.

-->When it is used as Queue it follows Fisrt In First Out (FIFO) manner.

**Implementation of Deque :**

Implementation of Deque done in two ways.

A Deque can be implemented either using a **doubly linked list** or **circular array**.

In both implementation, we can implement all operations in O(1) time.

**Operations of Deque :**

-insertFront(): Adds an item at the front of Deque

-insertLast(): Adds an item at the rear of Deque.

-deleteFront(): Deletes an item from front of Deque.

-deleteLast(): Deletes an item from rear of Deque.

-getFront(): Gets the front item from queue.

-getRear(): Gets the last item from queue.

-isEmpty(): Checks whether Deque is empty or not.

-isFull(): Checks whether Deque is full or not

**Applications :**

* It can be used as Stack and Queue.

* It can perform redo and undo operations.

* It can be used to palindrome checker.

* It can be used in multiprocessor scheduling (A-Steal Algorithm).

**Presented By :** *Afreena begum*

**Audio Link :**  *(https://youtu.be/QyuuJiCSk1E)

**DSA Batch-1.**
