# Risk Assessment 

There’s no such thing as ***one-size-fits-all***. Every organization faces its own unique set of security risks, and needs to take its own approach to cybersecurity risk assessment. 

The key to any vulnerability management program is the IT team’s ability to assess the level of risk, possess by the vulnerabilities to the business. The better the assessment, the better able the organization will be to prioritize vulnerability remediation. 

<br>

## Benefits of performing Security Risk Assessment 

- **Balance the impact of the threat against the cost of countermeasures:** Organization can reduce the long-term costs associated with damage caused by a data breach or theft of critical assets. 

- **Avoid lost productivity:** By identify vulnerabilities and mitigating them, organization avoids disruptions that can lead to lost productivity.	 

- **Avoid Data Loss and Data Breaches**

<br>

## Techniques to evaluate and Prioritize Risk: 

- **Quantitative Risk Analysis** 

- **Qualitative Risk Analysis** 

<br>

## Practice to assess risk: 

1. **Create a Risk Management Team:** A cross-departmental team is crucial to identifying cyber threats and mitigating the risks to IT systems and data. 

2. **Catalogue Information Assets:** Risk management team can now work together to catalog all information assets of organization. That includes IT infrastructure and the various solutions (Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)) used throughout the company. 

3. **Assess Risk:** Once team have identified information assets, it’s time to assess the risks to them. 

4. **Analyze Risk:** Risk analysis assigns priority to the risks team have listed. For each risk, assign a score based on:  

    - **Probability:** The likelihood of a cybercriminal’s obtaining access to the asset 

    - **Impact:** The financial, operational, and reputational impact that a security event might have on the organization 

        Multiply the probability by the impact, to establish risk tolerance level. 

        Also, for each risk, determine organization’s response:  accept, avoid, transfer, or mitigate. 

- **Set Security Controls** 

- **Monitor and Review Effectiveness** 

<br>

## To reduce risk: 

- **Accept the risk and periodically re-assess** 

- **Reduce the risk by implementing controls** 

- **Avoid the risk by totally changing the approach**

- **Transfer the risk to third party. Example, by purchasing the maintenance control.** 