# Introduction to Linked List
    * Linked list is a data structure that stores a data in linear fashion.
    * Linked list is different from arrays or other liner collections because it does not stores data contiguously.
    * The the memory address of a data element does not defines the order of data in a linked list.
    * The elements in a linked list are linked using pointers.

## Parts of a linked list
    * Every Linked list contains following parts
### Node
    * Every data element in alinked list is called a node.
    * Each node has atlest two parts:
        - Data: It is the variable storing the data of each node.
        - Next: It is the pointer storing the memory address of the next node.

### Head
    * Every linked list is defined by the Head.
    * It is the pointer to the first node of the linked list.

## Pictorial representation
    | Data1 | |--->| Data2 | |--->| Data3 | |--->| Data4 | |--->| Null |

      ^Head                                        ^Tail

## Types of Linked lists
There are mainly three types of linked lists based on the possible direction of traversal   
    - Singly Linked list:
    <ul>
       <li> The list refers to its successor and the last node contains the NULL reference.
        <li> Traversal of a singly link list is simple, beginning at the first node and following each next link until we come to the end
    </ul>
    - Doubly Linked list:
       <ul> 
            <li> Doubly link list contains three parts:
                <ul> 
                    <li>-First is left pointer which contains the address of previous node.
                    <li>-Second part is info part which contains the data.
                    <li>-Third part contains the address of next node.
                </ul> 
            <li> Doubly linkedlist can be traversed in both directions
        </ul>
    - Circular Linked list:
       <ul> 
        <li> In a circular link list, the last node does not point to null pointer.
        <li> The next pointer of last node contains the address of one of the node of the linked ist itself. 
       </ul> 

## Implementing linked list

For implementing linked lists consider:
<ol>
    <li> A class named node that has two member objects:
        <ul>
            <li>-Data: The value that node stores
            <li>-Next: A pointer to the next node
        </ul>
</ul>
<br>
Let us see the code for this

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

//Declaring the class Node

class Node{
    public:
        int data;
        Node* next;
};

int main(){

    //declaring node pointers
    Node* head= NULL;
    Node* second= NULL;
    Node* third= NULL;

    //Allocating three nodes in heap
    head= new Node();
    second= new Node();
    third= new Node();

    //Assigning values
    head->data=10;
    second->data=20;
    third->data=30;

    //Connecting the nodes to form linked list
    head->next=second;
    second->next=third;
    third->next=NULL;

    return 0;

}
```
## Traversal of linked list
* For traversing a linked list we first declare an iterator pointer, itr.
* itr is initialised with head.
* Then we update itr with itr->next to move forward in thr linked list.

Example: let us traverse and print the last node of the linked list.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

//Declaring the class Node

class Node{
    public:
        int data;
        Node* next;
};

int main(){

    //declaring node pointers
    Node* head= NULL;
    Node* second= NULL;
    Node* third= NULL;

    //Allocating three nodes in heap
    head= new Node();
    second= new Node();
    third= new Node();

    //Assigning values
    head->data=10;
    second->data=20;
    third->data=30;

    //Connecting the nodes to form linked list
    head->next=second;
    second->next=third;
    third->next=NULL;


    //declaring and Initialising iterator pointer
    Node* ptr =head;
    //Traversing to the end using while loop
    while(ptr->next!=NULL){
        ptr = ptr->next;
    }

    //Printing data of last node
    cout<<ptr->data<<endl;

    return 0;

}

```

## Advantages of linked list over arrays:
    * It is dynamic data structure
    * Linked lists are flexible in size.
    * Insertion and deletion are very easy as compared to arrays.
    * Efficient use of memory because the memory is not needed to be declared in the starting itself.
    * Access time is less.

## Disdvantages of linked list:
    * Extra memory is required to store the addres of pointers to the next node.
    * We cannot access directly a node from middle using the index, as we do in arrays.
    * We need to to traverse all the nodes before, in order to access any node in between.
    * Reversing linked list is very hard, as it requires extrs space to store pointers to next node.

## Application:
1. To implement other data structures like stacks and queues.
2. To prevent the collision between the data in the hash map, we use a singly linked list.
3. In the functioning of a casual notepad, it also uses a singly linked list to perform undo or redo or deleting functions.
4. Linked list is used in a photo viewer for having look at photos continuously in a slide show.


## References and credits:
* [OpenGenus IQ](https://iq.opengenus.org/applications-of-linked-list/)
* [Geeks for Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/data-structures/linked-list/)
* [IJERMT](https://ijermt.org/publication/11/IJERMT%20V-1-5-6.pdf)

<p align = "center">----- Hope it helps you! Contributed with love✨ by <a href = "https://github.com/uzma024">~Uzma </a> ----</p>
