##  What is open source software?
Open Source Software (OSS) is software with source code made available for everyone, so that people can inspect and enhance it. Source code is a part of an app or computer program which can be never seen by the end user.
Open source made it possible that we can see the source code of some software.
<hr>

## What's the difference between open source software and other types of software?
- Some softwares have source code that only the person, team, or organization who created it and maintains it can modify. This kind of software is called **closed source software**.
Only the original authors of closed source software can legally copy, inspect, and alter that software. To use this software user has to agree to their terms and conditions and promise that you will not alter any feature of that software.
**Microsoft Office** and **Adobe Photoshop** are examples of such softwares. The company distributing the software (i.e., software owner) guarantees a certain level of support, depending on the terms of the SLA
because the source code is closed for review, there can be security issues. If issues are found, the software distributor is responsible for fixing them.
- Open source software is different. Its authors make its source code available to others who would like to view that code, copy it, learn from it, alter it, or share it.
**LibreOffice** and the **GNU Image Manipulation Program** are examples of open source software. As they do with closed source software, users must accept the terms of a license when they use open source software but the legal terms of open
source licenses differ dramatically from those of closed source licenses. Open source software licenses promote collaboration and sharing because they permit other people to modify to source code and incorporate those 
changes into their own projects. Source code is open for review by anyone and everyone. There might be possibility of security bugs and flaws and can pose significant risk.

<hr>

## Is open source software only for computer programmers?
Open source is for both programmers and non-programmers. Anyone using the internet and computer get benifitted from open source. For example, software documentation, hands-on tutorials, etc are some domains for non-programmers where they can contrinute to open source softwares.

<hr>

## How does open source software work?
Open source code is publically stored in a repository and shared. Anyone can access the repository to use the code independently
or contribute improvements to the design and functionality of the overall project.OSS usually comes with a distribution license. This license includes terms that define how developers can use, study, modify,
and most importantly, distribute the software.
<hr>

## Why people choose open source software?
- Many people prefer open source software because they have more control over that kind of software. They can examine the code to make sure it's not doing anything they don't want it to do,
and they can change parts of it they don't like.
- Other people like open source software because it helps them become better programmers. Because open source code is publicly accessible, students can easily study it as they learn to make better software. 
Students can also collaborate with others and make a great software, as they develop their skills.
- Many users prefer open source software to closed source software for important, long-term projects.
<hr>

## Is open source software a free software?
Nearly all open source software is free software, but not every OSS is free. The criteria for open source are concerned solely with the licensing of the source code.
 
First, some open source licenses are too restrictive, so they do not qualify as free licenses where its license does not allow making a modified version and using it privately. Fortunately, few programs use such licenses.
Second, when a program's source code carries a weak license, one without copyleft, its executables can carry additional nonfree (or paid) conditions.

<hr>

## Examples of OSS
- GNU/Linux
- Mozilla Firefox
- VLC media player
- SugarCRM
- IMP
- VNC
- Apache web server
- LibreOffice
- jQuery
- LibreOffice
- Blender 
- and many more ..
<hr>

## Is OSS bug free?
The straight answer is no. With multiple people making enhancements, it will have some bugs. 
However, large number of code contributors also mean that bugs are identified and fixed faster.

Regardless of the type of software—open source or commercial—code flaws will exist. The main difference is who is responsible for fixing the bugs; for commercial software, vendors are responsible, whereas the consumer is responsible for open source software. With a robust set of AppSec tools and practices in place, OSS can be easily secured.
<hr>

##  Advantages and Disadvantages of open source software
### Advantages
1. OSS is free.
2. OSS is flexible.
3. OSS is stable.
4. OSS always comes with a community that continuously modifies and improves the source code.
5. Open source provides great learning opportunities for new programmers.

### Disadvantages
1. The biggest disadvantage of OSS is that it can be harder to use and adapt due to difficulty setting it up and the lack of friendly user interfaces.
2. OSS rarely contains any warranty, liability, or infringement indemnity protection.
3. OSS can incur unexpected costs in setting up required hardware.
