
# **The Pros And Cons Of Open Source Software Development**

</br>
</br>

## What is Open Source ?


* Open Source can be anything that anyone can inspect , modify and disribute.

* There are many type of open source contribution like writing documents,     tranlating documentation, answer questions on mailing lists etc but the most
prominent type is Open Source Software Development.

* Open Source Software Development is a decentralised and collaborative way of 
modifying and creating software relaying on peer review and community production.

</br>
</br>

## What is Great About Developing Open Source Softwares

* **Software Quality** - Bugs can be easily fixed as the code is being constantly reviewed by multiple developers.

* **Coustomization** - As the code is accessible to everyone so a developer
can easily add any functionality to the software.

* **Cost Effectiveness** - Open Source Software are more cost effective than 
proprietary ones.

* **Best Way of Learning** - It is the best way for the begginers in the techstack to learn by implementing.


</br>
</br>

## Personal Benefits

* **Learing** - Open Source provides opportunity to learn which allows you to improve and get better not only in the area you are comfertable with but pushes you to step out of your comfert zone .

* **Career and Reputation** - Open Source contribution in your resume can have a very good impression on a recriuters. 

* **Monetary Benefits** - There are so many open source program which along with increaing your knowledge pays you a very amount of stipend.

</br>
</br>

## Community Recognition

 You can get a great recognition from the developer community in following ways

* By creating a great github profile.

* By participating in many open source events like Hacktoberfest.

* By helping budding developers in their feild.


</br>
</br>

## Sense of Values

*  When you create any feature in a software that a huge amount of people creates a sense of resposnsibility.

* Creating a software for a large amount of users gives a sense of accomplishment.

* You can motivate other developers to contribute to open source and build the community.
