# What is NPM
NPM, or 'Node Package Manager' is a huge repository of libraries, packags and modules that can be used with your JavaScript applications.  

NPM is the default package manager for JavaScript runtime environment Node JS. NPM mainly consists of two things - A command line client which is also called as 'NPM' and a huge online database of public/ private packages, referred to as 'NPM Registry.' Online database of packages can be fount at [npmjs.org](https://www.npmjs.com/).

NPM is been up since the launch of Node JS and contains over 800k packages, most of which are open source and free to use. Though NPM is publically available, some organizations also use NPM for managing private development.

### NPM Packages
Package is a bundle of files that is published to NPM online database. It may be a standalone function, library or even a framework. Every NPM package contains one common file - **package.json** that contains informaiton about the package.

# Installing NPM packages
As mentioned earlier, NPM consists of many packages that can be used in our applicaiton. In order to use those packages, first we need to install it in our local machine. For that, we need to have a file named `package.json` in the working directory.
package.json is created when `npm init` command is executed and holds information about your JS projects. It also has a list of all packages as well as dependencies used in your project along with their versions.

# Installing 'globally' and 'locally'
You are given freedom to install NPM packages either in the current working directory (where `package.json` exists) ie 'locally' or in your whole machine, ie globally. 
Though most of the times it is best to install packages locally, there are some use case where you want to them globally.  
If you will use the package as a CLI tool for something that doesn't need `package.json` or has the scope beyond `package.json`, you must install the package globally.

# Installing as 'dependency' or 'dev-dependency'
If you look at the package.json file you would realize that some of the dependencies are installed under 'dependencies' key of the JSON object and few are installed as 'devDependencies'.  
The difference is about the software environment on which project is currently running. If Node environment is set to Development only then dependencies mentioned under 'dependencies' will be installed. Otherwise, if project is in production environment, dependencies mentioned under devDependency will be ignored and only 'dependencies' will be checked for installation.

This is helpful when you need to install something that is only beneficial while developing phase and has no use in production. Such as: live servers, code formatters, etc. 

# Installing NPM Packages
#### Few things to notice:
1. replace `<package-name>` with name of the package you want to install. NPM will throw an error if no package with that name exists in the repo.
2. You can type `-i` instead of `install` while installing NPM packages.
3. Similarly, you can use `-g` instead of `--global` as  a shortcut.
4. If you have not provided `--save-dev` or `--global` tag, it will be saved as a normal dependency that will be used for production.

### For Global Installation:
```bash
npm install --global <package-name>
```

### For Local Installation:
```bash
npm install <package-name>
```

### Installing a Specific Version:
```bash
npm -i <package-name>@<version>
```

### Installing with a Specific Tag:
```bash
npm -i <package-name>@<tag>
```

### Installing as a dev-dependency
```bash
npm -i <package-name> --save-dev
```
> You can also use an ally `-D` instead of `--save-dev`

# Update NPM Packages
### Specific Packages
```
npm update <package-name>
```

### Global Packages
```bash
npm update -g
```

### All packages
This command install **all* packages in your software
```bash
npm update --save/--save-dev
```

# Uninstall Package
```bash
npm uninstall <package-name>
```
> use `-g` to uninstall globally installed packages.

# Conclusion:
We have covered:
1. NPM Basics
2. NPM Packages
4. global v/s local installation
5. devdependencies v/s dependencies
3. Installing NPM Packages
4. Updating NPM Packages
5. Deleting NPM Packages

Contributed by: [Kaushal Joshi](https://github.com/joshi-kaushal)
