<h1><strong> How to Answer “Tell me About yourself”</strong> </h1>
<p>Okay, so your Interview is lined up super soon and as always the Interviewer will start the Easiest+Toughest Question <strong> “Tell me about yourself.” </strong> Here’s what you will be needing to rock in this answer.</p>
<h3>Change Your Answer according to the Role and Company you are applying for </h3>
<p>“When an interviewer ask this, they don't mean to listen to your Hobbies or do you like to Do something or not. What they want to listen is that do you think you’re suitable/your skills are for The Company/ The job profile you are applying for. They’re giving you an opportunity to articulate succinctly why you have the right qualifications.”</p><p>Take an advantage of this opportunity! If you give Answer as they have Expected to be, you will be getting some more time in this Interview. In order to do that, you’ll have to Brain Storme through the job description, research about the company, and figure out how you can tell them that How much you’re interested and what you are bringing to the that others don’t.</p>
<h3><strong>Mention past experiences and proven successes as they relate to the position</strong></h3><p> Now you Have to tell your Each and Every Past Experiences that you think are needed for the post you are applying for. </p>
<strong>By keeping all the things in your mind, ask yourself, What is the positive trait that you’re having inside you from a long time that will serve you well in this role?</strong> <p>For example, have your friends or colleagues ever described you as an especially organised, curious, entrepreneurial or generous? Think about how you’ve thought of yourself or how others have seen you. </p>

<h2> These were the points you have to Cover in, while Answering "Tell me About yourself".There are a few important tips about what to avoid.</h2>
•	<strong>Don’t Mention Personal Information’s such as marital status, children, political or religious affiliations, etc.</strong> These are highly sensitive things that can be against you as a candidate.<br> </br>
•	strong>mention too many strengths without examples. </strong> You can choose 2 or 3 Qualities that you think will be suitable for the job profile. Also give short stories that can be substantiated by your work experience.<br> </br>
•	<strong>Don’t Read Out you Resume</strong> Mention the high points that are relevant to the position, other then Reading out the Resume. They are already having your Resume on their table. .<br> </br>
•	Don’t rush into conversations regarding what you’re looking for in the role or how the company can benefit you. .<br> </br>

