# **Introduction to Express.js**

Express.js is `fast`, `minimal`, and `efficient` web framework for `Node.js`. It is a powerful tool for writing server side code for web applications. As the name suggest .js it's a javascript technology which is written in javascript. It is devloped by `TJ Holowaychuk` and launch on November 2010. It is an open-source software under MIT License.

# **Prerequisite**

- Basic Knowledge of Javascript and HTML
- Knowledge of Node.js and HTTP

Since express.js is written in javascript you have to knowledge of `basic Javascript`, `Javascript function`, `Promises`, `async/await`, and `ES6`.
Since express.js is framework of Node.js you should have idea about `Node.js`, `HTTP protocol`, `Request/Respnose` etc.

# **Why do we need Express.js?**

**Now, you might be thinking when we have a Node.js, why do need express.js?**

As we know that, **time** is the most valuable asset in any business. Programmers have to build the efficient web apps in short period of time. But coding web apps, testing them takes time. This is where express is needed.

Express.js helps us to save a lot of our time, As most of the code is already written to work with.

You can install Express.js by running command:

```
// for npm
npm install express --save

// for yarn
yarn add express
```

# **How it is useful to use in Nodejs**

When we are working on Node.js we have to write everything on our own like `parsing`, `routing`, `logic`, `checks` etc. everything has to written by ourselves. Which is annoying and might be insecure. We can use express in Node which makes writing node app more fun, easier to quickly setup routes and it also allow us to setup middlewares.

`Middleware` is simply the code which runs on the server between getting a request and sending a response. Middlewares can be multiple, the `app.use()` method is generally use to run middlware codes.

We can use `express router` to manage all of our routes more efficiently than Node.js, no matter how big our project is, how many routes do we have, and which request we are making. Express routes make it easy for us. We use express router to split our route in different files and manage them in small groups of routes. Which helps us to update those different parts of the app later on.

**How to define express route**

```javascript
app.method(path, handler);
```

In above code:

- **app** is instance of express which create an express application.
- **method** is a HTTP request method (GET, POST, DELETE, PUT etc.).
- **path** is the particular endpoint at which URI you want to make a request.
- **Handler** it is a callback function which will be executed when the route is matched.

Simple Example of GET request:

```javascript
app.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send('Hello World!);
})
```
