# Intro to Express 

Express is a open source backend web application framework for Node.js. It is used to create web application and APIs.

## Installation

> Pre-requisite

```shell
Node.js >= 0.10
npm >= 4.17
```

* Step 1 : Create a directory

```shell
mkdir myApp 
cd myApp
```

* Step 2 : Run `npm init --y`. It will create a default package for your directory.

```shell
npm init --y
```

* Step 3 : Install Express. Run this command to install express in your working directory.

```shell
npm install express --save
// --save is optional
```
__*Now you've installed express you can create your first express server*__

## Creating an Express Server

Create a new file in the directory and call it index.js and write this code in it.

```javascript
const express = require('express');

const app = express();

app.get('/', (req,res) => {
  res.send("Yey, this is my First Express Server!")
})

app.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log("Server started");
})
```
**Let's understand what is happening in the above code?**

First we imported express in our index.js file and stored in our constant variable express.
Then we initialized a constant variable `app` and set it equal to `express()`. You might be wondering what `const app = express()` means. Here `app` is a placeholder to recieve the output from `express()` function, which is an object. 

After that we have a `get` route with `callback()` functions `(req,res)`. 

> __What is a `Callback()` function?__

> *When a function is passed to antother function as parameter then it is called a callback function. They are important in asynchronous programming, i.e, when we want to run our code sequentially but code runs after something else happens. Callbacks make sure that a function is not going to run before a task is completed but will run right after the task has completed. It helps us develop asynchronous JavaScript code and keeps us safe from problems and errors.*

In above code `(req,res)` is our callback function. `req` stands for request, the data we are receiving from our user in the form of an object and `res` stands for response, the data we will be sending to the user.

In the callback function we are sending a message to the user `res.send("Yey, this is my First Express Server!")`. What this is doing is sending response message `Yey, this is my First Express Server!` when a person accessing `"/"` this route.

And last we have `app.listen(3000)`. Here we are telling our application to run on port 3000. In this with the port number we have passed a function also that logs a message to the console `Server started`.

And with this we have created our web application server.

