
# Send HTML & JSON Data as a Response

This documentation will help you undersstand the following:
- Responses methods
- HTTP Requests 
- Status code
- Content type
- How to send html tags using express.
- How to send JSON Data as a response.


### Response methods
The methods on the response object (res) can send a response to the client, and terminate the request-response cycle. If none of the methods are called from a route handler, the client request will be left hanging.

There are a number of methods on response object but the most commonly used are:

- **res.write()**
    
    It can be called multiple times followed by res.end() and It creates buffer size based on whole data and sends over http so it would be faster in case of huge amount of data. 
- **res.send()**

    It can be called only once and it sends data in chunk of some buffer size to client and then again comes back and sends another chunk of buffer size so there is a lot of back and forth http communication.
- **res.json()**

    Sends a JSON response. This method sends a response that is the parameter converted to a JSON string using JSON.stringify().

    The parameter can be any JSON type, including object, array, string, Boolean, number, or null, and you can also use it to convert other values to JSON.
- **res.status()**

    Sets the HTTP status for the response. It is a chainable alias of Node’s response.statusCode.
- **res.render()**

    Renders a view and sends the rendered HTML string to the client. Optional parameters:

    - locals, an object whose properties define local variables for the view.

    - callback, a callback function. If provided, the method returns both the possible error and rendered string, but does not perform an automated response. When an error occurs, the method invokes next(err) internally.

For more information on responses in express [click here.](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#res)
### HTTP Requests 
Requests are made to perform various operations on the data in the backend. These are used to create API's.
There are a number of requests but most commonly used are:

- Get

    The GET method is used to retrieve information from the given server using a given URI. Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should have no other effect on the data.

    Example:
    ```
    app.get('/', function (req, res) {
        res.send('GET request to homepage')
    })
    ```

- Post

    A POST request is used to send data to the server, for example, customer information, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.

    Example:
    ```
    app.post('/', function (req, res) {
        res.send('POST request to homepage')
    })
    ```
- Put

    Replaces all the current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content.

    Example:
    ```
    app.put('/', function (req, res) {
        res.send('PUT request to homepage')
    })
    ```
- Delete

    Removes all the current representations of the target resource given by URI.

    Example:
    ```
    app.set('title', 'My Site')
    app.get('title') // "My Site"
    ```

For more information on requests in express [click here.](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.set)

### Status code
Status codes are issued by a server in response to a client's request made to the server.

According to Internet Engineering Task Force (IEFT), the organization that develops and promotes Internet standards, there are over 60 different HTTP status codes. 

HTTP status codes are classified into the following five groups:
- **1xx Informational Response.** Request received and understood. Request processing continues.
- **2xx Success.** The action was successfully received, understood, and accepted.
- **3xx Redirection.** Further action must be taken by the client to complete the request.
- **4xx Client Errors.** An error may have been caused by the client. The request contains bad syntax or cannot be fulfilled.
- **5xx Server Errors.** The server has encountered an error and failed to fulfill the request.

Some most common status codes are:

- **Status Code 200** – This is the standard “OK” status code for a successful HTTP request. The response that is returned is dependent on the request.
- **Status Code 201** – This is the status code that confirms that the request was successful and, as a result, a new resource was created. Typically, this is the status code that is sent after a POST/PUT request.
- **Status Code 304** – The is status code used for browser caching. If the response has not been modified, the client/user can continue to use the same response/cached version.
- **Status Code 400** – The server cannot understand and process a request due to a client error. Missing data, domain validation, and invalid formatting are some examples that cause the status code 400 to be sent.
- **Status Code 401** – This status code request occurs when authentication is required but has failed or not been provided.
- **Status Code 403** – Very similar to status code 401, a status code 403 happens when a valid request was sent, but the server refuses to accept it. This happens if a client/user requires the necessary permission or they may need an account to access the resource. Unlike a status code 401, authentication will not apply here.
- **Status Code 404** – The most common status code the average user will see. A status code 404 occurs when the request is valid, but the resource cannot be found on the server. Even though these are grouped in the Client Errors “bucket,” they are often due to improper URL redirection.
- **Status Code 500** – Another one of the more commonly seen status codes by users, the 500 series codes are similar to the 400 series codes in that they are true error codes. The status code 500 happens when the server cannot fulfill a request due to an unexpected issue.

In Express the status code is set by ```res.status()``` method.

Example:
```
app.get('/', function (req, res) {
    res.status(200).send('Success!')
})
```

### Content-type
In responses, a Content-Type header tells the client what the content type of the returned content actually is. 

In express ```res.type()``` method sets the Content-Type HTTP header to the MIME type as determined by the specified type. If type contains the “/” character, then it sets the Content-Type to the exact value of type, otherwise it is assumed to be a file extension and the MIME type is looked up in a mapping using the ```express.static.mime.lookup()``` method.

Different content-types:
```
res.type('.html')
// => 'text/html'
res.type('html')
// => 'text/html'
res.type('json')
// => 'application/json'
res.type('application/json')
// => 'application/json'
res.type('png')
// => 'image/png'
```

### Sending HTML tags using express

We can send html tags in response to a get request in express as follows:
```
const express = require('express');

const app = express();
const port=8000;


app.get('/', (req, res) => {

    res.type('text/html')
    res.send(`<!DOCTYPE html>
        <html lang="en">
        <head>
            <meta charset="UTF-8">
            <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
            <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
            <title>Transform</title>
        </head>
        <style>
            *{
                margin: 0px;
                padding: 0px;
                background:blue;
            }
            h1{
                text-align:center;
            }
        </style>
        <body>
            <h1>Hello world!</h1>
        </body>
        </html>`);
});

app.listen(port,()=>{
    console.log(`The application started successfull on port ${port}`);
})
```

### Sending JSON data as a response
We can ```/get``` JSON data response with the help of ```res.json()``` method as follows:
```
const express = require('express');

const app = express();
const port=8000;


app.get('/about', (req, res) => {
    res.json({
        Name:"Bhuvnesh",
        Profession:"Student",
        Email:"abcdefg@gmail.com",
    });
});

app.listen(port,()=>{
    console.log(`The application started successfull on port ${port}`);
})
```
