# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
"""14.Web_Browser_APIs

Automatically generated by Colaboratory.

Original file is located at
    https://colab.research.google.com/drive/19Cp7eUCk5G7myXmoIiAJosbPK53wJ-GL

# ***What are API's ?***

API stands for Application Programming Interface. An API is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.  In other 
words, an API is the messenger that delivers your request to the provider that you’re requesting it from and then delivers the response back to you.


---
1. Procedures 

Also referred to as routines, procedures refer to the specific tasks or functions a program performs. For example, Twitter provides a search API for developers to explore data for analytical purposes.

2. Protocols

The protocol is the format used to communicate data between applications. This can get complicated, though. Applications may not rely on the same format. But, more on this later.

3. Tools

Think of tools as a set of building blocks – the components needed to construct new programs.


---




An API defines functionalities that are independent of their respective implementations, which allows those implementations and definitions to vary without compromising each other. Therefore, a good API makes it easier to develop a program by providing the building blocks.


---

When developers create code, they don’t often start from scratch. APIs enable developers can make repetitive yet complex processes highly reusable with a little bit of code. The speed that APIs enable developers to build out apps is crucial to the current pace of application development.

Developers are now much more productive than they were before when they had to write a lot of code from scratch. With an API they don’t have to reinvent the wheel every time they write a new program. Instead, they can focus on the unique proposition of their applications while outsourcing all of the commodity functionality to APIs.

#What are API's used for ?

When you use an application on your mobile phone, the application connects to the Internet and sends data to a server. The server then retrieves that data, interprets it, performs the necessary actions and sends it back to your phone. The application then interprets that data and presents you with the information you wanted in a readable way. This is what an API is - all of this happens via API.



---


1.   APIs power desktop applications.
2.   APIs are behind most web applications.
3.   APIs make mobile applications possible.
4.   APIs are the integrations for no code solutions.
5.   APIs connect devices to the internet.


To explain this better, let us take a familiar example.

Imagine you’re sitting at a table in a restaurant with a menu of choices to order from. The kitchen is the part of the “system” that will prepare your order. What is missing is the critical link to communicate your order to the kitchen and deliver your food back to your table. That’s where the waiter or API comes in. The waiter is the messenger – or API – that takes your request or order and tells the kitchen – the system – what to do. Then the waiter delivers the response back to you; in this case, it is the food.

Here is a real-life API example. You may be familiar with the process of searching flights online. Just like the restaurant, you have a variety of options to choose from, including different cities, departure and return dates, and more. Let us imagine that you’re booking you are flight on an airline website. You choose a departure city and date, a return city and date, cabin class, as well as other variables.
 In order to book your flight, you interact with the airline’s website to access their database and see if any seats are available on those dates and what the costs might be.

#What can APIs do?

APIs are needed to bring applications together in order to perform a designed function built around sharing data and executing pre-defined processes. They work as the middle man, allowing developers to build new programmatic interactions between the various applications people and businesses use on a daily basis.

#How do APIs work?

APIs work by sharing data and information between applications, systems, and devices—making it possible for these things to talk with each other.

Sometimes the easiest way to think about APIs is to think about a metaphor, and a common scenario that a lot of folks use is that of the customer, a waiter, and a restaurant kitchen: A customer talks to the waiter and tells the waiter what she wants. The waiter takes down the order and communicates it to the kitchen. The kitchen does their work, creating the food, and then the waiter delivers the order back to the customer.

In this metaphor, a customer is like a user, who tells the waiter what she wants. The waiter is like an API, receiving the customer’s order and translating the order into easy-to-follow instructions that the kitchen then uses to fulfill that order—often following a specific set of codes, or input, that the kitchen easily recognizes. The kitchen is like a server that does the work of creating the order in the manner the customer wants it, hopefully! When the food is ready, the waiter picks up the order and delivers it to the customer.
"""