# **Android-Kotlin: 02.1 Datatypes in Kotlin #443**

<br>

* [Video on DataTypes in Kotlin](#Video-on-DataTypes-in-Kotlin)

<br>


> Data type refers to an attribute type and size of data associated with variables and functions that tells a computer system how to interpret the given value.

> Data type is used for declaration of memory location of variables and functions which determines the features of data.

> Kotlin has following different built in data types:
1.   Number
2.   Character
3.   Boolean
4.   Array
5.   String

# Number

> Number data types are those which hold only number types of data variables.

> Number data type is categorized into following:
*    Integer
*    Floating point
*    Literal Constants
*    Explicit Conversions

> Integers
```
val num1 = 7 // Int
val num2 = 7000000000 // Long
```

> Floating point
```
val num1 = 7.05 // Float
```

> Literal Constants
```
val creditCard = 1234_5678_9012_3456
```

> Explicit Conversions
```
val num = 100000001 + 3 // Long + Int => Long
```

# Character

> Characters are represented by the keyword Char. 

> Character data types are declared using single quotes ('').

```
val value1 = 'A'  
```
```
val  value2: Char  
value2= 'A' 
```

# Boolean

> Boolean data type is represented using the type Boolean. 

> Boolean data type contains values either true or false.

> Boolean has a nullable value to counterpart, which is Boolean?, that also has the null value.

> Boolean has following operations:
*    || disjunction (also known as logical OR)
*    && conjunction (also known as logical AND)
*    ! negation (also known as logical NOT)

```
val myTrue: Boolean = true
val myFalse: Boolean = false
val boolNull: Boolean? = null

println(myTrue || myFalse) // True
println(myTrue && myFalse) // False
println(!myTrue) // False
```

# Array

> In Kotlin, Array is represented by the Array class. 

> Arrays are created using the library function arrayOf() and Array() constructor. 

> Array has get(), set() function, size property and some member functions.

> The elements of an array are accessed through their index values (array[index]).

> Array indexes start from zero.

> Creating Array using library function arrayOf():
* The arrayOf() function creates a new array of Boolean, Byte, Double, Float, Integer etc. 
* The item values are passed inside the arrayOf() function like arrayOf(1,2,3), which creates an array[1,2,3].

> Creating Array using Array() constructor:
* Creating an array using Array() constructor takes two arguments in Array() constructor which are as follows:
1.  As the size of array and, 
2.  As the function, which is used to initialize and return the value of an array element given its index.

```
val arr = Array(5, { i -> i * 2 }) //arr[0,2,4,6,8]  
```

# String

> In Kotlin, String is represented by the String class. 

> String is immutable, which means elements cannot be changed.

```
val text ="Hello, World" // Declaration 
```

> Types of String are:
* Escaped String and Raw String
* Escape String is declared using doublequotes(“ “), which may contain escape characters like '\n', '\t', '\b' etc.
* Row String is declared within a triple quote (""" """). 
It is used to declare String in new lines and it helps to contain multiple lines. 
Row String cannot contain any escape character.

<br>

## Video on DataTypes in Kotlin
Link to the file -> <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ySOYzLAzgj28Y-4cN3QeuFQZ6xyxFtXB/view?usp=sharing">DataTypes in Kotlin</a>

<br>

#### Authors:
- [Lavleen Agrawal](https://github.com/LavleenAgrawal) Documentation .
- [Ayush Mishra](https://github.com/ayush-sleeping) Video .

