# Android Kotlin - "Collection in Kotlin"
( This Documentation is a part of "Android Development in Kotlin" -> 02. Learn Kotlin - 02.2 Collection )
<br>
<br>

> **Welcome to the Documentation of "Collection in Kotlin". This Documentation will help you to understand the Collection in Kotlin in a simple way and we will see what types of collection Kotlin standard library offers.**

## Table of Contents

* [Collection](#Collection)
* [Collection Types](#Collection-Types)
* [Immutable Collection](#Immutable-Collection)
* [Mutable Collection](#Mutable-Collection)
* [List](#List)
* [Set](#Set)
* [Map](#Map)

## Collection
So basically what is Collection ? :
<br>
Collection is used to store Multiple objects(same type) as a single unit.
Objects inside a collection are known as elements or items. Collections are used to store, manipulate aggregate data. Some common types of collections are of Movies, books, etc. Collection in kotlin are also iterable, means- that kotlin standard library provides a common standarized set of operation for collection .

In Kotlin, the standard library provides cool Tools to manage groups of items.
The collection interfaces and related functions are located in the kotlin.collections package.

## Collection Types
In Kotlin standard library, each of the collection types can be Immutable Collection or Mutable Collection. and there are three types of collection
1. List
2. Set
3. Map

So before we jump on what is List, Set and Map . Let's first get to know what is Immutable and Mutable Collection -
<br>
<br>

## Immutable Collection (Read only)
In immutable collections, basically an element cannot be added, removed after declaration. After defining, we can only read its elements.
<br>
<br>

## Mutable Collection (Both read and write)
In mutable collections, It allow's both write and read operations. In this after defining we can add, remove and alter the values of elements.
<br>
<br>
> **Types of Collection in Kotlin -**

## List
A list is a collection of ordered elements, What's that mean, that you access the elements of list using indicies. An element can occur more than one time in a list. 

List collections can be both mutable and immutable in terms of their size and contents. Immutable lists are created using List interface and Mutable lists are created using MutableList interface (mutable list can be a dynamic array, where we can change its size). <br>
ex. 
```
fun main(args:Array<String>){  
    var student:List<String> = listOf("C","C++","Python","Java")  
    student.forEach {  
        print(" "+it)  
    }  
}  
```
Output:
```
C C++ Python Java
```

<br>

## Set
A Set is a collection of elements where we don't care about the order of elements and here in set elements is unique(That's the key property of set). Sets are also a common mathematical abstraction, Duplicate elements are not allowed in sets. Basically Set is an unordered collection of elements.

In Kotlin we have both mutable and immutable set. Immutable Sets are created using Set interface and Mutable sets are created using MutableSet interface. A Set can help you manage constraints without having think about it manually. <br>
ex. 
```
fun main(args:Array<String>){  
    // creates a immutable set of mixed types  
    val mixedTypesSet = setOf(1, 10.2, "why", "slow") // will compile  
mixedTypesSet.forEach {  
    print(" "+it)  
}  
    var intSet: Set<Int> = setOf(1, 2, 3)  // only integers types allowed  
    intSet.forEach {  
        print(" "+it)  
    }  
}  
```
Output:
```
1 10.2 why slow  1 2 3
```
<br>

## Map
Maps are used to store key and value pairs. Both key and value are user defined. In map, key are unique and it can store only one value for each key and also values of key can be duplicate . 
The Map interface provides specific functions, such as access to value by key, searching keys and values and others.

Immutable maps are created using Map<K, V> interface and Mutable maps are created using MutableMap interface. <br>
ex.
```
 fun main(args:Array<String>){  
    val callingCodesMap: Map<Int, String> = mapOf(100 to "Nigeria", 911 to "USA")  
    for ((key, value) in callingCodesMap) {  
        println("$key is the calling code for $value")  
    }  
    print(callingCodesMap[100]) // Nigeria  
}  
```
Output:
```
100 is the calling code for Nigeria 
911 is the calling code for USA 
Nigeria 
```
<br>

Was this Documentation helpful? If yes give a star to this Repository.

### Authors
- [Ayush Mishra](https://github.com/ayush-sleeping)





                          