Functions in Kotlin
===================

A function is a unit of code that performs a special task. In programming, Function is used to break the code into smaller modules which makes the program more manageable.
Kotlin function are declared using the fun keyword:

For example:- If you have to compute the sum of two numbers then define a fun sum().

<pre>
<code>
fun sum(a: Int, b: Int): Int {
    return a + b
}
</code>
</pre>

-   Function usage﻿
    ---------------

Functions are called using the standard approach:

<pre>
<code>
val result =  double(2)
</code>
</pre>


Calling member functions uses dot notation:

<pre><code>
Stream().read()  // create instance of class Stream and call read()
</code></pre>


-   ### Parameters

Function parameters are defined using Pascal notation - name: type. Parameters are separated using commas, and each parameter must be explicitly typed:

<pre><code>
fun  powerOf(number: Int, exponent: Int): Int {  /*...*/  }
</code></pre>


You can use a [trailing comma](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html#trailing-commas) when you declare function parameters:

<pre>
<code>
fun  powerOf(
    number: Int,
    exponent: Int,  // trailing comma
)  {  /*...*/  }
</code>
</pre>

-   ### Default arguments

Function parameters can have default values, which are used when you skip the corresponding argument. This reduces the number of overloads:

<pre><code>
fun  read(
    b: ByteArray,
    off: Int =  0,
    len: Int = b.size,
)  {  /*...*/  }
</code></pre>

A default value is defined using = after the type.

Overriding methods always use the same default parameter values as the base method. When overriding a method that has default parameter values, the default parameter values must be omitted from the signature:

<pre><code>
open  class A {
    open  fun  foo(i: Int =  10)  {  /*...*/  }
}

class B :  A()  {
    override  fun  foo(i: Int)  {  /*...*/  } // No default value is allowed.
}
</code></pre>


If a default parameter precedes a parameter with no default value, the default value can only be used by calling the function with [named arguments](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#named-arguments):

<pre><code>
fun  foo(
    bar: Int =  0,
    baz: Int,
)  {  /*...*/  }

foo(baz =  1)  // The default value bar = 0 is used
</code></pre>


If the last argument after default parameters is a [lambda](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/lambdas.html#lambda-expression-syntax), you can pass it either as a named argument or [outside the parentheses](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/lambdas.html#passing-trailing-lambdas):

<pre><code>
fun  foo(
    bar: Int =  0,
    baz: Int =  1,
    qux:  ()  -> Unit,
)  {  /*...*/  }
</code></pre>

<pre><code>
foo(1)  {  println("hello")  }  // Uses the default value baz = 1
foo(qux =  {  println("hello")  })  // Uses both default values bar = 0 and baz = 1
foo {  println("hello")  } // Uses both default values bar = 0 and baz = 1
</code></pre>


-   ### Named arguments﻿

When calling a function, you can name one or more of its arguments. This can be helpful when a function has many arguments and it's difficult to associate a value with an argument, especially if it's a boolean or null value.

When you use named arguments in a function call, you can freely change the order they are listed in, and if you want to use their default values, you can just leave these arguments out altogether.

Consider the following function, reformat(), which has 4 arguments with default values.

<pre><code
fun  reformat(

    str: String,

    normalizeCase: Boolean =  true,

    upperCaseFirstLetter: Boolean =  true,

    divideByCamelHumps: Boolean =  false,

    wordSeparator: Char =  ' ',

)  {  /*...*/  }
</code></pre>

When calling this function, you don't have to name all its arguments:

<pre><code>
reformat(
    "String!",
    false,
upperCaseFirstLetter =  false,
divideByCamelHumps =  true,
    '_'
)
</code></pre>


You can skip all the ones with default values:
<pre><code>
reformat("This is a long String!")
</code></pre>

You are also able to skip specific arguments with default values, rather than omitting them all. However, after the first skipped argument, you must name all subsequent arguments:
<pre><code>
reformat("This is a short String!", upperCaseFirstLetter =  false, wordSeparator =  '_')
</code></pre>

You can pass a [variable number of arguments (vararg)](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#variable-number-of-arguments-varargs) with names using the spread operator:
<pre><code>
fun  foo(vararg strings: String)  {  /*...*/  }
foo(strings =  *arrayOf("a",  "b",  "c"))
</code></pre>

On the JVM: You can't use the named argument syntax when calling Java functions because Java bytecode does not always preserve the names of function parameters.

-   Types of functions-:

-   ### Unit-returning functions﻿

If a function does not return a useful value, its return type is Unit. Unit is a type with only one value - Unit. This value does not have to be returned explicitly:
<pre><code>
fun  printHello(name: String?): Unit {
    if  (name !=  null)
        println("Hello $name")
    else
        println("Hi there!")
    // `return Unit` or `return` is optional
}
</code></pre>

The Unit return type declaration is also optional. The above code is equivalent to:
<pre><code>
fun  printHello(name: String?)  {  ...  }
</code></pre>


-   ### Single-expression functions﻿

When a function returns a single expression, the curly braces can be omitted and the body is specified after a = symbol:
<pre><code>
fun  double(x: Int): Int = x *  2
</code></pre>

Explicitly declaring the return type is [optional](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#explicit-return-types) when this can be inferred by the compiler:
<pre><code>
fun  double(x: Int)  = x *  2
</code></pre>


-   ### Explicit return types﻿

Functions with block body must always specify return types explicitly, unless it's intended for them to return Unit, [in which case specifying the return type is optional](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#unit-returning-functions).

Kotlin does not infer return types for functions with block bodies because such functions may have complex control flow in the body, and the return type will be non-obvious to the reader (and sometimes even for the compiler).

-   ### Variable number of arguments (varargs)﻿

You can mark a parameter of a function (usually the last one) with the vararg modifier:
<pre><code>
fun  <T>  asList(vararg ts: T): List<T>  {
    val result = ArrayList<T>()
    for  (t in ts)  // ts is an Array
        result.add(t)
    return result
}
</code></pre>

In this case, you can pass a variable number of arguments to the function:
<pre><code>
val list =  asList(1,  2,  3)
</code></pre>

Inside a function, a vararg -parameter of type T is visible as an array of T, as in the example above, where the ts variable has type Array<out T>.

Only one parameter can be marked as vararg. If a vararg parameter is not the last one in the list, values for the subsequent parameters can be passed using named argument syntax, or, if the parameter has a function type, by passing a lambda outside the parentheses.

When you call a vararg -function, you can pass arguments individually, for example asList(1, 2, 3). If you already have an array and want to pass its contents to the function, use the spread operator (prefix the array with *):
<pre><code>
val a =  arrayOf(1,  2,  3)
val list =  asList(-1,  0,  *a,  4)
</code></pre>

-   ### Infix notation﻿

Functions marked with the infix keyword can also be called using the infix notation (omitting the dot and the parentheses for the call). Infix functions must meet the following requirements:

-   They must be member functions or [extension functions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/extensions.html).

-   They must have a single parameter.

-   The parameter must not [accept variable number of arguments](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#variable-number-of-arguments-varargs) and must have no [default value](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/functions.html#default-arguments).

<pre><code>
infix  fun Int.shl(x: Int): Int {  ...  }
// calling the function using the infix notation
1  shl  2
// is the same as
1.shl(2)
</code></pre>
Infix function calls have lower precedence than arithmetic operators, type casts, and the rangeTo operator. The following expressions are equivalent:

-   1 shl 2 + 3 is equivalent to 1 shl (2 + 3)

-   0 until n * 2 is equivalent to 0 until (n * 2)

-   xs union ys as Set<*> is equivalent to xs union (ys as Set<*>)

On the other hand, an infix function call's precedence is higher than that of the boolean operators && and ||, is- and in -checks, and some other operators. These expressions are equivalent as well:

-   a && b xor c is equivalent to a && (b xor c)

-   a xor b in c is equivalent to (a xor b) in c

Note that infix functions always require both the receiver and the parameter to be specified. When you're calling a method on the current receiver using the infix notation, use this explicitly. This is required to ensure unambiguous parsing.

<pre><code>
class MyStringCollection {
    infix  fun  add(s: String)  {  /*...*/  }
    fun  build()  {
        this add "abc"  // Correct
        add("abc")  // Correct
        //add "abc"        // Incorrect: the receiver must be specified
    }
}
</code></pre>

-   Function scope﻿
    ---------------

Kotlin functions can be declared at the top level in a file, meaning you do not need to create a class to hold a function, which you are required to do in languages such as Java, C#, and Scala. In addition to top level functions, Kotlin functions can also be declared locally as member functions and extension functions.

-   ### Local functions﻿

Kotlin supports local functions, which are functions inside other functions:
<pre><code>
fun  dfs(graph: Graph)  {
    fun  dfs(current: Vertex, visited: MutableSet<Vertex>)  {
        if  (!visited.add(current))  return
        for  (v in current.neighbors)
            dfs(v, visited)
    }
    dfs(graph.vertices[0],  HashSet())
}
</code></pre>

A local function can access local variables of outer functions (the closure). In the case above, visited can be a local variable:
<pre><code>
fun  dfs(graph: Graph)  {
    val visited = HashSet<Vertex>()
    fun  dfs(current: Vertex)  {
        if  (!visited.add(current))  return
        for  (v in current.neighbors)
            dfs(v)
    }
    dfs(graph.vertices[0])
}
</code></pre>

-   ### Member functions﻿

A member function is a function that is defined inside a class or object:

<pre><code>
class Sample {
    fun  foo()  {  print("Foo")  }
}
</code></pre>

Member functions are called with dot notation:

<pre><code>
Sample().foo()  // creates instance of class Sample and calls foo

</code></pre>

For more information on classes and overriding members see [Classes](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/classes.html) and [Inheritance](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/classes.html#inheritance).

-   Generic functions﻿
    ------------------

Functions can have generic parameters, which are specified using angle brackets before the function name:

<pre><code>
fun  <T>  singletonList(item: T): List<T>  {  /*...*/  }
</code></pre>

For more information on generic functions, see [Generics](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/generics.html).

-   Tail recursive functions﻿
    -------------------------

Kotlin supports a style of functional programming known as [tail recursion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tail_call). For some algorithms that would normally use loops, you can use a recursive function instead without the risk of stack overflow. When a function is marked with the tailrec modifier and meets the required formal conditions, the compiler optimizes out the recursion, leaving behind a fast and efficient loop based version instead:

<pre><code>
val eps =  1E-10  // "good enough", could be 10^-15

tailrec  fun  findFixPoint(x: Double =  1.0): Double =
    if  (Math.abs(x - Math.cos(x))  < eps) x else  findFixPoint(Math.cos(x))
</code></pre>

This code calculates the fixpoint of cosine, which is a mathematical constant. It simply calls Math.cos repeatedly starting at 1.0 until the result no longer changes, yielding a result of 0.7390851332151611 for the specified eps precision. The resulting code is equivalent to this more traditional style:

<pre><code>
val eps =  1E-10  // "good enough", could be 10^-15

private  fun  findFixPoint(): Double {
    var x =  1.0
    while  (true)  {
        val y = Math.cos(x)
        if  (Math.abs(x - y)  < eps)  
          return x
        x = Math.cos(x)
    }
}
</code></pre>

To be eligible for the tailrec modifier, a function must call itself as the last operation it performs. You cannot use tail recursion when there is more code after the recursive call, and you cannot use it within try/ catch/ finally blocks. Currently, tail recursion is supported by Kotlin for the JVM and Kotlin/Native.

-   Inline functions﻿
    -----------------

Using [higher-order functions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/lambdas.html) imposes certain runtime penalties: each function is an object, and it captures a closure. A closure means those variables that are accessed in the body of the function. Memory allocations (both for function objects and classes) and virtual calls introduce runtime overhead.

But it appears that in many cases this kind of overhead can be eliminated by inlining the lambda expressions. The functions shown below are good examples of this situation. The lock() function could be easily inlined at call-sites. Consider the following case:
<pre><code>
lock(l)  {  foo()  }
</code></pre>

Instead of creating a function object for the parameter and generating a call, the compiler could emit the following code:
<pre><code>
l.lock()

try  {
    foo()
}  finally  {
    l.unlock()
}
</code></pre>


To make the compiler do this, you need to mark the lock() function with the inline modifier:
<pre><code>
inline  fun  <T>  lock(lock: Lock, body:  ()  -> T): T {  ...  }
</code></pre>

The inline modifier affects both the function itself and the lambdas passed to it: all of those will be inlined into the call site.

Inlining may cause the generated code to grow; however, if you do it in a reasonable way (avoiding inlining large functions), it will pay off in performance, especially at "megamorphic" call-sites inside loops.

-   no-inline﻿
    ---------

In case you want only some of the lambdas passed to an inline function to be inlined, you can mark some of your function parameters with the noinline modifier:
<pre><code>
inline  fun  foo(inlined:  ()  -> Unit,  noinline notInlined:  ()  -> Unit)  {  ...  }
</code></pre>

Inlinable lambdas can only be called inside the inline functions or passed as inlinable arguments, but noinline ones can be manipulated in any way you like such as stored in fields or passed around.

If an inline function has no inlinable function parameters and no [reified type parameters](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/inline-functions.html#reified-type-parameters), the compiler will issue a warning, since inlining such functions is very unlikely to be beneficial (you can suppress the warning if you are sure the inlining is needed using the annotation @Suppress("NOTHING_TO_INLINE")).

-   Non-local returns﻿
    ------------------

In Kotlin, you can only use a normal, unqualified return to exit a named function or an anonymous function. To exit a lambda, use a [label](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/returns.html#return-at-labels). A bare return is forbidden inside a lambda because a lambda cannot make the enclosing function return:
<pre><code>
fun  foo() {
   ordinaryFunction {
       return  // ERROR: cannot make `foo` return here
   }
}
</code></pre>

But if the function the lambda is passed to is inlined, the return can be inlined as well. So it is allowed:
<pre><code>
fun  foo() {
   inlined {
       return  // OK: the lambda is inlined
   }
}
</code></pre>

Such returns (located in a lambda, but exiting the enclosing function) are called non-local returns. This sort of construct usually occurs in loops, which inline functions often enclose:
<pre><code>
fun  hasZeros(ints: List<Int>): Boolean {
    ints.forEach  {
        if  (it ==  0)  return  true  // returns from hasZeros
    }
    return  false
}
</code></pre>

Note that some inline functions may call the lambdas passed to them as parameters not directly from the function body, but from another execution context, such as a local object or a nested function. In such cases, non-local control flow is also not allowed in the lambdas. To indicate that, the lambda parameter needs to be marked with the crossinline modifier:
<pre><code>
inline  fun  f(crossinline body:  ()  -> Unit)  {
    val f =  object: Runnable {
        override  fun  run()  =  body()
    }
    // ...
}
</code></pre>

break and continue are not yet available in inlined lambdas, but we are planning to support them too.

-   Reified type parameters﻿
    ------------------------

Sometimes you need to access a type passed as a parameter:
<pre><code>
fun  <T> TreeNode.findParentOfType(clazz: Class<T>): T?  {
    var p = parent
    while  (p !=  null  &&  !clazz.isInstance(p))  {
      p = p.parent
     }
    @Suppress("UNCHECKED_CAST")
    return p as T?
}
</code></pre>

Here, you walk up a tree and use reflection to check if a node has a certain type. It's all fine, but the call site is not very pretty:

treeNode.findParentOfType(MyTreeNode::class.java)

What you actually want is simply pass a type to this function. You can call it like this:
<pre><code>
treeNode.findParentOfType<MyTreeNode>()
</code></pre>

To enable this, inline functions support reified type parameters, so you can write something like this:
<pre><code>
inline  fun  <reified T> TreeNode.findParentOfType(): T?  {
    var p = parent
    while  (p !=  null  && p !is T)  {
      p = p.parent
    }
    return p as T?
}
</code></pre>

You qualified the type parameter with the reified modifier to make it accessible inside the function, almost as if it were a normal class. Since the function is inlined, no reflection is needed, normal operators like !is and as are working now. Also, you can call it as mentioned above: myTree.findParentOfType<MyTreeNodeType>().

Though reflection may not be needed in many cases, you can still use it with a reified type parameter:
<pre><code>
inline  fun  <reified T>  membersOf()  = T::class.members

fun  main(s: Array<String>)  {
    println(membersOf<StringBuilder>().joinToString("\n"))
}
</code></pre>


Normal functions (not marked as inline) cannot have reified parameters. A type that does not have a run-time representation (for example, a non-reified type parameter or a fictitious type like Nothing) cannot be used as an argument for a reified type parameter.

-   Inline properties﻿
    ------------------

The inline modifier can be used on accessors of properties that don't have a backing field. You can annotate individual property accessors:
<pre><code>
val foo: Foo
    inline  get()  =  Foo()
var bar: Bar
    get()  =  ...
    inline  set(v)  {  ...  }
</code></pre>

You can also annotate an entire property, which marks both of its accessors as inline:
<pre><code>
inline  var bar: Bar
    get()  =  ...
    set(v)  {  ...  }
</code></pre>

At the call site, inline accessors are inlined as regular inline functions.

-   Restrictions for public API inline functions﻿
    ---------------------------------------------

When an inline function is public or protected and is not a part of a private or internal declaration, it is considered a [module](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/visibility-modifiers.html#modules) 's public API. It can be called in other modules and is inlined at such call sites as well.

This imposes certain risks of binary incompatibility caused by changes in the module that declares an inline function in case the calling module is not recompiled after the change.

To eliminate the risk of such incompatibility being introduced by a change in non -public API of a module, the public API inline functions are not allowed to use non-public-API declarations, i.e. private and internal declarations and their parts, in their bodies.

An internal declaration can be annotated with @PublishedApi, which allows its use in public API inline functions. When an internal inline function is marked as @PublishedApi, its body is checked too, as if it were public.

You can also learn about[ Extensions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/extensions.html#note-on-visibility) and [Higher Order Functions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/lambdas.html#function-literals-with-receiver) by pressing the links.

HAPPY LEARNING🙌😎