# Coroutines in Kotlin

A coroutine is a concurrency design pattern that you can use on Android to simplify code that executes asynchronously. Coroutines were added to Kotlin in version 1.3 and are based on established concepts from other languages.

On Android, it's essential to avoid blocking the main thread. The main thread is a single thread that handles all updates to the UI. It's also the thread that calls all click handlers and other UI callbacks. As such, it has to run smoothly to guarantee a great user experience.

## Features
### Lightweight
You can run many coroutines on a single thread due to support for suspension, which doesn't block the thread where the coroutine is running. Suspending saves memory over blocking while supporting many concurrent operations.
### Fewer memory leaks
 Use structured concurrency to run operations within a scope.
### Built-in cancellation support
Cancellation is propagated automatically through the running coroutine hierarchy.
### Jetpack integration
 Many Jetpack libraries include extensions that provide full coroutines support. Some libraries also provide their own coroutine scope that you can use for structured concurrency.

## Dependency info

To use coroutines in your Android project, add the following dependency to your app's ``` build.gradle ``` file: 
```kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-android:1.3.9")
}
```

## Lifecycle for Coroutines

A CoroutineScope defines a lifecycle, a lifetime, for Coroutines that are built and launched from it. A CoroutineScope lifecycle starts as soon as it is created and ends when it is canceled or when it associated Job or SupervisorJob finishes. When that happens, the CoroutineScope is no longer active.
Any ```launch-``` or ```async-```Coroutine built from a CoroutineScope will, if it is still running, be cancelled when itsCoroutineScope lifecycle ends.

```kotlin
val scope: CoroutineScope = ...
...
scope.launch {
    while(true) { 
        ...
        delay(100)
    }
}
...
scope.cancel() 
```
In the example above, calling ```scope.cancel()``` will cause the launch to get canceled as well (the call to ```delay(100)``` will throw a ```CancellationException``` as long as the code-execution is suspended there).


## The callback pattern

One pattern for performing long-running tasks without blocking the main thread is callbacks. By using callbacks, you can start long-running tasks on a background thread. When the task completes, the callback is called to inform you of the result on the main thread.

Take a look at an example of the callback pattern.
```kotlin
// Slow request with callbacks
@UiThread
fun makeNetworkRequest() {
    // The slow network request runs on another thread
    slowFetch { result ->
        // When the result is ready, this callback will get the result
        show(result)
    }
    // makeNetworkRequest() exits after calling slowFetch without waiting for the result
}
```
Because this code is annotated with ```@UiThread```, it must run fast enough to execute on the main thread. That means, it needs to return very quickly, so that the next screen update is not delayed. However, since ```slowFetch``` will take seconds or even minutes to complete, the main thread can't wait for the result. The ```show(result)``` callback allows ```slowFetch``` to run on a background thread and return the result when it's ready.

## Using coroutines to remove callbacks

Callbacks are a great pattern, however they have a few drawbacks. Code that heavily uses callbacks can become hard to read and harder to reason about. In addition, callbacks don't allow the use of some language features, such as exceptions.

Kotlin coroutines let you convert callback-based code to sequential code. Code written sequentially is typically easier to read, and can even use language features such as exceptions.

In the end, they do the exact same thing: wait until a result is available from a long-running task and continue execution. However, in code they look very different.

The keyword ```suspend``` is Kotlin's way of marking a function, or function type, available to coroutines. When a coroutine calls a function marked ```suspend```, instead of blocking until that function returns like a normal function call, it suspends execution until the result is ready then it resumes where it left off with the result. While it's suspended waiting for a result, it unblocks the thread that it's running on so other functions or coroutines can run.

For example in the code below, ```makeNetworkRequest()``` and ```slowFetch()``` are both ```suspend``` functions.
```kotlin
// Slow request with coroutines
@UiThread
suspend fun makeNetworkRequest() {
    // slowFetch is another suspend function so instead of 
    // blocking the main thread  makeNetworkRequest will `suspend` until the result is 
    // ready
    val result = slowFetch()
    // continue to execute after the result is ready
    show(result)
}

// slowFetch is main-safe using coroutines
suspend fun slowFetch(): SlowResult { ... }
```
Just like with the callback version, ```makeNetworkRequest``` must return from the main thread right away because it's marked ```@UiThread```. This means that usually it could not call blocking methods like ```slowFetch```. Here's where the ```suspend``` keyword works its magic.
```
Important: The suspend keyword doesn't specify the thread code runs on. Suspend functions may run on a background thread or the main thread.
```
Compared to callback-based code, coroutine code accomplishes the same result of unblocking the current thread with less code. Due to its sequential style, it's easy to chain several long running tasks without creating multiple callbacks. For example, code that fetches a result from two network endpoints and saves it to the database can be written as a function in coroutines with no callbacks. Like so:
```kotlin
// Request data from network and save it to database with coroutines

// Because of the @WorkerThread, this function cannot be called on the
// main thread without causing an error.
@WorkerThread
suspend fun makeNetworkRequest() {
    // slowFetch and anotherFetch are suspend functions
    val slow = slowFetch()
    val another = anotherFetch()
    // save is a regular function and will block this thread
    database.save(slow, another)
}

// slowFetch is main-safe using coroutines
suspend fun slowFetch(): SlowResult { ... }
// anotherFetch is main-safe using coroutines
suspend fun anotherFetch(): AnotherResult { ... }
```

```
Coroutines by another name

The pattern of async and await in other languages is based on coroutines. If you're familiar with this pattern, the suspend keyword is similar to async. However in Kotlin, await() is implicit when calling a suspend function.

Kotlin has a method Deferred.await() that is used to wait for the result from a coroutine started with the async builder.
```

## Author

- [@Tanushree](https://github.com/Tanushree-coder)