# Space Complexity

## Definition

The **space complexity** of an algorithm refers to the total amount of memory it uses during complete execution. It is expressed as a **function of the input size.**

## Importance of space complexity

These are some cases where space complexity is an important factor :

- If two algorithms are achieving the same task with same time complexities, the one with a better space complexity (taking up less memory space) is preferable.

- If we are working with huge datasets we need to be careful about the memory limitations of our physical system.

## How to analyze the space complexity of an algorithm ?

**Example 1**
```C
#include<stdio.h>
int main(){
    int a = 2, b = 3, c = 6, d;
    d = a + (c - b);
    printf("%d", d);
    return 0;
}
```
Here we have 4 integer variables (a, b, c, d). The space occupied by an integer is 4 bytes. Therefore the total space of this algorithm will be 16 bytes.
As the space is constant we can say that the space complexity of this algorithm is **O(1).**

**Example 2**
```C
#include<stdio.h>
int main(){
    int n, i;
    scanf("%d", &n);
    int arr[n];
    for(i=0;i<n;i++){
        arr[i]=i+3;
    }
    printf("%d", arr[n-1]);
    return 0;
}
```
Here we have 2 integer variables (n, i) and an integer array of size n, so total n+2 integers. Therefore total space will be 4(n+2) = 4n + 8 bytes.
As the space is a function of n we can say that space complexity of this algorithm will be **O(n).**

## How to analyze the space complexity of a recursive algorithm ?

A recursive algorithm calls itself repeatedly. To find the space complexity of a recursive algorithm we require the information about two things
- maximum function call stack
- space taken up by each call

**Space complexity will be given as :
(maximum function call stack) * (space taken up by each call)**

Consider the following example :
```C
#include<stdio.h>

int fib(int n){
    if(n<=1)
        return n;
    return find_fib(n-1) + find_fib(n-2);
}

int main(){
    int n, answer;
    scanf("%d", &n);
    answer = fib(n);
    printf("%d", answer);
    return 0;
}
```
First let us think about the maximum call stack.

Consider n = 3
<br>
fib(3) ->
<br>
fib(2) + fib(1) ->
<br>
fib(1) + fib(0) + 1 ->
<br>
1 + 0 + 1
<br>
Maximum function call stack is 3

Consider n = 5
<br>
fib(5) -> 
<br>
fib(4) + fib(3) ->
<br>
fib(3) + fib(2) + fib(2) + fib(1) ->
<br>
fib(2) + fib(1) + fib(1) + fib(0) + fib(1) + fib(0) + 1 ->
<br>
fib(1) + fib(0) + 1 + 1 + 0 + 1 + 0 + 1 ->
<br>
1 + 0 + 1 + 1 + 0 + 1 + 0 + 1
<br>
Maximum function call stack is 5

We can observe that the function calls proceed till the value of n becomes 1, so we can say that in general maximum call stack will be n.

Next we determine the space occupied in each call of the function fib().
There is only 1 integer variable hence space occupied is 4 bytes which can be represented as O(1).

Thus space complexity of the algorithm will be O(n * 1) = **O(n).**


## Auxiliary space

Consider the total space taken up by an algorithm :

- the space used to store the original inputs
- space required until the execution other than input space

The second type of space is called **auxiliary space.**

**Note - Space complexity includes the space used by the input as well as the auxiliary space.**

Let us understand the difference between space complexity and auxiliary space with an example :

```C
#include<stdio.h>
int main(){
    int n, i;
    int product = 1;
    scanf("%d", &n);
    int arr[n];
    for(i=0;i<n;i++){
        scanf("%d", arr[i]);
        product = product * arr[i];
    }
    printf("%d", product);
    return 0;
}
```
Here the inputs are 1 integer variable 'n' and the n integers of the array, so total n+1 integers. Therefore total space occupied by input will be 4(n+1) = 4n+4 bytes. This can be represented as O(n).

Apart from that we also have 2 more integer variables (product, i). They occupy 8 bytes which is constant and hence can be represented as O(1).

So input space is O(n) and **auxiliary space is O(1).**

Total space is 4n + 4 + 8 = 4n + 12 bytes. Thus space complexity of algorithm will be **O(n).**