I've completed the documentation of Introduction of Natural Language Processing that comprieses of:<br/><br/>
<b> WHAT IS NATURAL LANGUAE PROCESSING</b><BR/><BR/>
Natural language processing (NLP) is about developing operations and services that are suitable to understand human languages like English etc.
It’s going very popular nowadays. 
Some Practical applications of NLP are speech recognition for eg google voice search, understanding what the content is about or sentiment analysis. 
<BR/><BR/>
<b>ADVANTAGES OF NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING</b><BR/><BR/>
<ul>
<li>As all of us know, there are millions of gigabytes every day are generated by blogs, social websites, and web runners. 
 Numerous companies are gathering all of these data for understanding the preferences of users and what type of content they want. 
  This gives the the idea to produce reports for upcoming trends.</li>
 <li>Suppose a person loves travelling and is regularly searching for a vacation destination, then the searches made by
   that particular user is used to give him relative advertisements by online booking of hotels and flight booking apps. </li>
<li>In the same way, if a foodie person often searches about food on the internet, he’ll provide the advertisement of various restaurants, food ordering apps etc.</li>
 So overall, we can say that NLP is that awesome tool that can process the human language and analyze it.
</ul>
<br/><br/>

<b>USING NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING(NLP) IN PYTHON</b><BR/><BR/>
Python provides a NLTK(Natural Language Toolkit) Library that can be used for processing the natural language. For this, first you need to install Python on the system and install NTTK library. 
You can find the installment procedure with a sample code of text analyzing in the .ipynb file. Also all the terms of the NLP are explained in detail in the .ipynb file for better 
understanding.
<br/><br/>


<b>MAJOR NLP APPLICATIONS</b>
<BR/><BR/>
 <ul>
  <li>There are many of the successful applications of Natural Language Processing (NLP) </li>
 <li>Search Engines like Google, Yahoo, etc use NLP. Google  Search Engine understands what a person is saying and it provides results based on that.</li>
 <li>Social websites feed like the Facebook news feed. The news feed algorithm understands your 
   interests using natural language processing and shows you affiliated Advertisements and posts more likely than other posts. </li>
 
 <li>Spam filtering like Google spam filter uses NLP. It’s not just about the usual spam filtering, 
   now spam filters understand what’s inside the email content and then it decides whether it’s spam or not.</li>
  </ul>
<small>
  <b>References:</b>
  https://www.tutorialspoint.com <br/>
  https://www.analyticsvidhya.com
  
</small>
