## What Are Binary Strings
A binary string is a sequence of bytes. Unlike a character string which usually contains text data, a binary string is used to hold non-traditional data such as pictures. The length of a binary string is the number of bytes in the sequence. A binary string has a CCSID of 65535. Only character strings of FOR BIT DATA are compatible with binary strings. For example - "100110" here the string consists of only 1's and 0's.

Now let's have a  look at a question to clear our concept of Binary Strings -
Q.1)  Given a binary string, count the number of substrings that start and end with 1.

First of all, let's try to understand what the question is all about? In this question, we have to find the total number of substrings that exist in a binary string such that it starts from 1 and ends at 1. 
For ex- "100010100"
Here are the substrings that follow the above condition "10001", "101", "1000101", So the total number of substrings would be 3.
Now let's have a look at the solution

## Brute force Approach

Our initial approach towards this question would be to use 2 for loops one for counting the starting 1's and another for counting the ending 1's. And every time both of the for loops executes and if the condition inside them gets true we will increment 1 in the count variable.

Code - 
```py
S = "100010100"
count = 0
for i in range(len(S) - 1):
    if S[i] == "1":
        for j in range(i+1, len(S)):
            if S[j] == "1":
                count += 1


print(count)
```

This solution will take the Time Complexity of O(N^2) since we are looping through the string twice and the space complexity will be constant i.e O(1) since we are not using any additional data structure to store anything.

## Optimum Approach

Since the previous approach was not that efficient, we can still solve this question in a much more efficient way by only looping through the string once. In this approach, we will count the total number of 1's in the string, and then we will use the formula n(n-1)/2. By using this formula we will be able to find out the total number of possible pairs of 1.

Code -
```py
S = "100010100"
count = 0
for i in range(len(S)):
    if S[i] == '1':
        count += 1

ans = count * (count - 1)//2

print(ans)

```
This solution is the most efficient one since its Time complexity will be O(N) with a Space complexity of O(1)