# **Connecting database to the application using mongoose**

MongoDB is the most popular **NoSQL** database in developer's world. NoSQL database stores data in JSON document instead of columns and rows used by relational database. The NoSQL database is designed to overcome the performance, scalability, Data Modelling and distribution limitations that are seen in the relational database.

If you are working on the NodeJS app, you can connect your Node application to MongoDB using mongoose. **Mongoose** is an Object Data Modelling (ODM) library that basically helps us to establish a connection between MongoDB and Nodejs.

**Before using mongoose make sure you have installed:**

- Node.js
- MongoDB

To check whether you have installed them successfully or not you can run the command

for Node.js:

```
node --version
```

for MongoDB:

```
mongod --version
```

If you have installed successfully you will get version number of them.

# You can use mongoose by following these steps:

# **Step 1 -** Install mongoose package

mongoose is a package that works with database to store Data, get data, delete data etc. You can install mongoose package by running the command:

```
npm install mongoose --save
```

**OR** if you use yarn you can run

```
yarn add mongoose
```

# **Step 2 -** Connect to database

We can connect to database using mongoose `connect` method. It will take two parameters `uri` and `options`. In the uri we write `localhost` since we are connecting database locally, `27017` is MongoDB port number, and `dbname` is the name you want to give your database. options is used to avoid deprecation warning. If you are using MongoDB version `>=3.1.0` you will get deprecation warning. Because the current URL string parser is deprecated. To avoid the deprecation warning we use `useNewUrlParser: true`.

```javascript
const mongoose = require("mongoose");

mongoose.connect("mongodb://localhost:27017/dbname", {
  useNewUrlParser: true,
  useUnifiedTopology: true,
});
```

# **Step 3 -** Check database connected successfully or not

To check whether database connected or not we use mongoose `connection` method, which return promises. If database connected successfully `.once()` get excuted. If there will be any error `.on()` get executed and error will shown.

```javascript
mongoose.connection
  .once("open", () => console.log("Database Connected Successfuly..."))
  .on("error", (err) => {
    console.log("Error: ", err);
  });
```

Using these 3 simple steps we can easily connect to database using mongoose.
