## Expression parsing ##
Expression parsing is used to evaluate logical and arithmetic expressions in data structures. A notation can be used to represent arithmetic operations. 
It's important to remember that a notation is simply a method of representation. Regardless of the notation chosen, the expression's result stays the same.
There are three distinct notations for arithmetic expressions, i.e. three methods to write an arithmetic expression:

- Infix notation

- Postfix notation

- Prefix notation
## Infix notation
Infix notation is used to write expressions, such as c - d * e, where operators are used in-between operands.
## Prefix notation
In this notation the operator is prefixed to the operands, which means it is written before the operands. For instance, -ab.

## Postfix notation
In this notation the operator is postfixed to the operands, which means it is written after the operands. For instance, ab-.


Let us first grasp the concepts of precedence and associativity
## Precedence
Precedence determines the order which the operators must follow throughout the evaluation of an expression.
If precedence fails to determine the order, we turn to associativity for assistance. 


Order of precedence of most likely used operators are:
```
1	Exponentiation(^)                      --> Highest	
2	Multiplication ( ∗ ) & Division ( / )  --> Second Highest	
3	Addition ( + ) & Subtraction ( − )     --> Lowest
 ```
## associativity
When an expression contain two or more operators of same precedence then we take help of associativity to decide the order in which evalution will be done.
Associativity can be in two order:
- left to right
- right to left


## Why do we need to parse an expression?

It is inefficient to develop an algorithm or programme to parse infix notations .
Instead, infix notations are transformed into postfix or prefix notations before being calculated. Therefore, we need to convert the infix expressions into a prefix or postfix expression.

## HAPPY LEARNING 🙌✨

### REFERENCES

For preparing this document some refrences were taken for maintaining the authenticity and also for making the topics more informative
The links of blog that were reffered -:


 - [techvidvan](https://techvidvan.com/tutorials/expression-parsing-in-data-structure/)
 - [tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/data_structures_algorithms/expression_parsing.htm)
  
