



## What is Virtualization
In computing, virtualization creates a simulated, or virtual, computing environment as opposed to a physical environment. This allows organizations to partition a single physical computer or server into several virtual machines. Each virtual machine can then interact independently and run different operating systems or applications while sharing the resources of a single host machine.

## How virtualization works
Virtualization describes a technology in which an application, guest operating system guest OS or data storage is abstracted away from the true underlying hardware or software. A key use of virtualization technology is server virtualization, which uses a software layer -- called a hypervisor -- to emulate the underlying hardware. This often includes the CPU's memory, input/output I/O and network traffic. Hypervisors take the physical resources and separate them so they can be utilized by the virtual environment. They are able to sit on top of an OS or they can be directly installed onto the hardware. The latter is how most enterprises virtualize their systems.

### The virtualization process follows the steps listed below:
1.   Hypervisors detach the physical resources from their physical environments.
2.  Resources are taken and divided, as needed, from the physical environment to the various virtual environments.
3.  System users work with and perform computations within the virtual environment.
4.  Once the virtual environment is running, a user or program can send an instruction that requires extra resources form the physical environment. In response, the hypervisor relays the message to the physical system and stores the changes. This process will happen at an almost.

## Need for virtualization
Server virtualization enables different OS to share the same network & make it easy to move OS between different networks without affecting the applications running on them. This allows portability of application.

Virtualization allows many instance of application to be created thus allowing them to scale up & down as per requirement. Virtualization enables load balancing thus allowing companies to handle peak loads.

Storage virtualization enables efficient utilization of existing resources. Allows services to be provided over internet.
