


> # **Virtual Desktop Infrastructure - VDI**

## ***What is VDI?***
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure or VDI is a technology used to create a virtualized desktop environment on a remote server setup such that virtual desktops can be accessed remotely.

## ***Basic components of VDI***
| Component| Description | 
|--|--|
|1. Virtualization   | This is responsible for the creation for virtual desktop for VDI.  |
|2. Hypervisor | A hypervisor is the layer that connects the physical server to the virtual machines. In other words, it accesses the applications from the pool and assigns them to the virtual machines. In other words, it creates a virtualized environment.
|3. Connection Broker | This is a software program that allows the end-user to connect to a remote virtual desktop. |
|4. Desktop Pools  | A desktop pool is a group of virtual desktops with a identical configuration such as operating system, storage and applications. Any change in the parent desktop is reflected on all the desktops in the desktop pool.  |
|5. Application Virtualization  | It is the technology used to create a virtualized application image and replicate it to all the virtual desktops in a desktop pool.  |
|  |  |


## ***How does VDI work?***
A protected physical server stores all OS, data and applications. The hypervisor software creates several virtual servers. These virtual servers are to access the physical server. Each virtual server creates a golden image which is a template for a virtual machine (VM), virtual desktop, server or hard disk drive. They allow to deploy several virtual desktops based on  single base image. Thus, virtual machines are setup from these golden images.
Now, several end-users can use a single virtual machine. That is called a session hosted environment. On the other hand, when a single end-user uses a single VM, it is called a dedicated host environment.
End-users access the virtual machines from their remote devices via the Internet or any other network. Say, the remote device does not have an application installed but the virtual machine can access it from the physical server via the virtual server. The end-user will be able to use that application and work on it as if it were present on his own device. Any command from the remote device is sent to the virtual machine, processed, and the output is sent from the virtual machine to the remote device. This makes the user feel that he/she is working on his/her own device.

## ***How is VDI used?***
Step 1 : User sends login request to their end point device.
Step 2 : Connection broker accepts the request.
Step 3 : Now user can use desktop according to their process.

## ***Benefits of VDI***

 - Data security - Data is stored in protected servers. Even if data  from desktop pool is deleted, it can be retrieved from the data center. No worries if device is lost or stolen. Authorization and identity management are necessary to access data. USB access can also be restricted.
 - Cost reduction - Pay-as-you-go model reduces cost effectively. Also thin client services effectively save energy and money.
 - Administration - Centralized data center.
 - Productivity - Provider's team manages al IT issues while client can concentrate on work. VDI also ensures easy and fast access to large files as well as easy information sharing and collaboration.
 - Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) - Virtual desktop can be accessed from any device irrespective of location - all that is needed is an active Internet connection.

## ***Drawbacks of VDI***

 - Application virtualization is required.
 - Network access is necessary.
 - A lot of complex knowledge is required.

## ***Examples of VDI***

 - Citrix Managed Desktops by Citrix
 - Horizon DaaS by VMWare
 - Azure-based Windows Virtual Desktop by Microsoft

## 
##


 



 






  






