
# What is Network Virtualization?
Network virtualization (NV, hereafter) is that the transformation of a network that was once hardware-dependent into a network that’s software-based. Like all types of IT virtualization, the essential goal of network virtualization is to introduce a layer of abstraction between physical hardware and so the activities that utilize that hardware.
More specifically, network virtualization permits network functions, hardware resources, and computer code resources to be delivered freelance of hardware—as a virtual network. It is typically used to consolidate several physical networks, subdivide one such network, or connect virtual machines (VMs) along.
This can optimize however digital service suppliers utilize their server resources (i.e. less idle servers), enable them to use commonplace servers for functions that after needed costly proprietary hardware, and usually improve the speed, flexibility, and dependability of their networks.

## Why would we like NV?
Network virtualization is revising the principles for the means services are delivered, from the software-defined knowledge center (SADC), to the cloud, to the sting. This approach moves networks from static, inflexible, and inefficient to dynamic, agile, and optimized. Trendy networks should carry on with the strain for cloud-hosted, distributed apps, and therefore the increasing threats of cybercriminals whereas delivering the speed and loathsomeness you wish for quicker time to promote for your applications. With network virtualization, you will ditch defrayal days or weeks provisioning the infrastructure to support a replacement application. Apps are typically deployed or updated in minutes for fast time to worth.

## However would it work?
Network virtualization decouples network services from the underlying hardware and permits virtual provisioning of a full network. It makes it attainable to programmatically produce, provision, and manage networks tired computer code, whereas continued to leverage the underlying physical network because the packet-forwarding back plane. Physical network resources, like switch, routing, fire walling, load equalization, virtual non-public networks (VPNs), and more, are pooled, delivered in computer code, and wish solely web Protocol (IP) packet forwarding from the underlying physical network.
Network and security services in computer code are distributed to a virtual layer (hypervisors, among the information center) and “attached” to individual workloads, like your virtual machines (VMs) or containers, in accordance with networking and security policies outlined for each connected application. Once ad deployment is emotional to a unique host, network services and security policies move with it. And once new workloads are created to scale associate application, necessary policies are dynamically applied to those new workloads, providing larger policy consistency and network lightsomeness.

## Advantages of NV
All your files and folders are bestowed as a tree within the file somebody. You’ll be able to switch from one to a unique by clicking an enter the tree.
Most digital service suppliers are already committed to network functions virtualization (NFV). This approach:
Reduce network provisioning time from weeks to minutes
Achieve larger operational potency by automating manual processes
Place and move workloads severally of network topology
Improve network security among the information center
Uses less (and less expensive) hardware.
Increases flexibility and employment movableness.
Provides the facility to spin workloads up and down with the lowest effort.
Allows resources to be scaled elastically to touch upon ever-changing network demands.
Types of Network Virtualization
There are 2 types of network virtualization: External virtualization and Internal virtualization.

## External Network Virtualization
External Network Virtualization involves and actual physical device that caters to your network. This sort of virtualization has been around for a few time currently.
The advantage of obtaining associate External Network Virtualization answer is that it is an extremely little footprint due to its “dedicated” nature, its resources are not shared by different tasks and burdens of your virtualization infrastructure.
A typical example of this can be able to be a CISCO networking switch that offers VLAN (virtual LAN) capabilities through its internal CISCO iOS computer code.
An advanced CISCO routing example includes providing automatic QOS and packet instrument service that enables you to grade network traffic additionally as diagnose network connected issues.

## Internal Network Virtualization
Internal Network Virtualization provides network practicality strictly supported computer code. In these you utilize existing network in your setting and gift it to the virtual machines using a straightforward bridged or NAT based mostly networking. But Internal Network Virtualization is typically much more complicated and with the computer code itself you will offer Virtual switch, Virtual Networking and even Virtual Firewall solutions.
One nice massive advantage of an indoor Network Virtualization answer is that it’s not hardware dependent. Internal Virtual Virtualization has constant blessings to that as any virtualization answer like storage virtualization will, it’s basically “Network in a very Silo” situation.
An example of is that the topology used by common virtualization produces like VMWare server or Microsoft Virtual computer.
