# # Linux File System Directories
In Unix-like operating systems, the Linux File Hierarchy Structure, also known as the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS), defines the directory structure and contents. The Linux Foundation oversees its upkeep.

- All files and directories in the FHS are organised under the root directory /, even if they are stored on separate physical or virtual devices. 
- Some of these folders are only present on a system if specific subsystems are installed, such as the X Window System.
- The majority of these folders are found in all UNIX operating systems and are used in a similar manner; however, the descriptions provided here are for the FHS only and should not be regarded official for platforms other than Linux.

**1. / (Root):** The whole file system hierarchy's primary hierarchical root and root directory.

- The root directory is the starting point for all files and directories. - Only the root user has permission to write to this directory. - /root is the root user's home directory, which is not the same as /.

**2. /bin:** Cat, ls, and cp are examples of command binaries that must be available in single-user mode for all users.

- Contains binary executables - This directory contains all of the common linux commands you'll need in single-user mode.
- All users' commands, such as ps, ls, ping, grep, and cp, are accessible here.


**3. /boot:** Boot loader files, such as kernels and initrd.

- Initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic, vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic, grub.img-2.6.32-24-generic, initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic, initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic, initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic, initrd.img-2.6.

**4. /dev:** Required device files, such as /dev/null.

- These include terminal devices, USB devices, and any other system-connected device.
- /dev/tty1, /dev/usbmon0, etc.

**5. /etc:** System-wide configuration files relevant to the host.

- All applications require configuration files, thus this folder contains them.
- This folder also contains shell scripts for starting and stopping specific programmes.
- /etc/resolv.conf and /etc/logrotate.conf are two examples.

**6. /home:** Users' home folders, which include stored files, personal settings, and other information.

- Users' personal files are stored in home folders.
- /home/kishlay, /home/kv, etc.

**7. /lib:** This directory contains libraries that are required for the binaries in /bin/ and /sbin/.
- The filenames for libraries are either ld* or lib*.so.
- ld-2.11.1.so, libncurses.so.5.7 are two examples.

**8./media:** Mount points for removable media such as CD-ROMs are located at  (appeared in FHS-2.3).
- For removable devices, this is a temporary mount directory.
- For example, /media/cdrom refers to a CD-ROM drive; /media/floppy refers to a floppy drive; and /media/cdrecorder refers to a CD writer.


**9. /mnt:** Temporarily mounted filesystems.

- Temporary mount directory where sysadmins can mount filesystems.

**10. /opt:** Optional application software packages.

- Contains add-on applications from individual vendors.
- Add-on applications should be installed under either /opt/ or /opt/ sub-directory.

**11. /sbin:** System binaries, such as fsck, init, and route.

- /sbin holds binary executables in the same way as /bin does.
- This directory contains linux commands that are commonly used by system administrators for system maintenance.
- iptables, reboot, fdisk, ifconfig, and swapon are some examples.

**12. /srv:** Site-specific data supplied by this system, such as web server data and scripts, FTP server data, and version control system repositories.

- The letter srv stands for service.
- This section contains information about the server's unique services.
- /srv/cvs, for example, includes CVS-related information.

**13. /tmp:** Temporary files are saved in the /tmp directory. Frequently lost between system reboots, and size restrictions may apply.

- Temporary files generated by the system and users are stored in this directory.
- When the system is restarted, files in this directory are destroyed.

**14. /usr:** Read-only user data hierarchy; includes the vast majority of (multi-)user utilities and programmes.

- For second-level programmes, this directory contains binaries, libraries, documentation, and source code.
- User applications' binary files are stored under /usr/bin. 
- Look in /usr/bin if you can't locate a user binary in /bin. /usr/sbin includes binary files for system administrators, such as at, awk, cc, less, and scp. Look at /usr/sbin if you can't find a system binary in /sbin.
- /usr/lib includes libraries for /usr/bin and /usr/sbin, for example: atd, cron, sshd, useradd, userdel.
- Users programmes that you install from source are stored in /usr/local. When you install apache from source, for example, it goes into /usr/local/apache2. 
- /usr/src contains Linux kernel sources, header files, and documentation.

**15. /proc:** Virtual filesystem that stores process and kernel data in files. In Linux, this is equivalent to a procfs mount. In most cases, the system generates and populates the data on the fly.

- This file contains information on the system's operation.
- This is a fictitious filesystem that stores information about currently running processes. The /proc/pid directory, for example, includes information about the process with that specific pid.
- This is a virtual filesystem that contains text descriptions of system resources. For instance, /proc/uptime

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Following the FHS version 3.0, modern Linux distributions contain a /run directory as a temporary filesystem (tmpfs) for storing volatile runtime data. Such data were saved in /var/run according to FHS version 2.3, however this was an issue in some situations because this directory is not always available at early boot. 

As a result, these applications have had to resort to deception, such as utilising the /dev/.udev, /dev/.mdadm, /dev/.systemd, or /dev/.mount folders to store data that isn't meant for the device directory. This has a number of advantages, including making the system easier to operate when the root disc is mounted read-only.

The following are some of the improvements made by Debian in its 2013 Wheezy release:
>/dev/.* ? /run/*
/dev/shm ? /run/shm
/dev/shm/* ? /run/*
/etc/* (writeable files) ? /run/*
/lib/init/rw ? /run
/var/lock ? /run/lock
/var/run ? /run
/tmp ? /run/tmp


##
#### References:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-file-hierarchy-structure/#:~:text=The%20Linux%20File%20Hierarchy%20Structure,in%20Unix%2Dlike%20operating%20systems.&text=In%20the%20FHS%2C%20all%20files,different%20physical%20or%20virtual%20devices.
