# ScrollView

A view group that allows the view hierarchy placed within it to be scrolled. 
Scroll view may have only one direct child placed within it. To add multiple views within the scroll view, make the direct child you add a view group, for example, LinearLayout, and place additional views within that LinearLayout.
Scroll view supports vertical scrolling only. For horizontal scrolling, use HorizontalScrollView instead.
Never add a RecyclerView or ListView to a scroll view. Doing so results in poor user interface performance and a poor user experience.

### Points To Remember
- Whenever the Screen needs a ScrollView, all the other views must come inside ScrollView.
- ScrollView can only have one child but can have lots of Grandchildren.
- ScrollView is not a View but for a ViewGroup.
- It may make a nesting of Layouts.
- When one layer lays inside the other, it is called nesting.

#### Important Note
> We never use a Scroll View with a ListView because ListView is default scrollable(i.e. vertical scrollable). More importantly, doing this affects all of the important optimizations in a ListView for dealing with large lists(list items).

### SAMPLE CODE

```sh
<ScrollView xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android" android:layout_width="match_parent" android:layout_height="match_parent" android:fillViewport="true"> 

    <TableLayout android:layout_width="match_parent" android:layout_height="match_parent" android:stretchColumns="1">
    
        <!-- everything you already have -->
        
    </TableLayout>
 </ScrollView>
```

# HorizontalScrollView

Layout container for a view hierarchy that can be scrolled by the user, allowing it to be larger than the physical display. A HorizontalScrollView is a FrameLayout, meaning you should place one child in it containing the entire contents to scroll; this child may itself be a layout manager with a complex hierarchy of objects.

A child that is often used is a LinearLayout in a horizontal orientation, presenting a horizontal array of top-level items that the user can scroll through.

The TextView class also takes care of its own scrolling, so does not require a HorizontalScrollView, but using the two together is possible to achieve the effect of a text view within a larger container.

### Points To Remember

- HorizontalScrollView only supports horizontal scrolling. For vertical scrolling, use either ScrollView or ListView.
- The android. widget.HorizontalScrollView class provides the functionality of horizontal scroll view. HorizontalScrollView is used to scroll the child elements or views in a horizontal direction. HorizontalScrollView only supports horizontal scrolling.

### SAMPLE CODE

```sh
<HorizontalScrollView android:layout_width="match_parent"      android:layout_height="60dp" android:id="@+id/horizontalScrollView">
    <TableLayout android:layout_width="match_parent" android:layout_height="match_parent" android:stretchColumns="1">
    
        <!-- everything you already have -->
    
    </TableLayout>
</HorizontalScrollView>
```