##  What is open source software?
Open Source Software (OSS) is software with source code made available for everyone, so that people can inspect and enhance it. Source code is a part of an app or computer program which can be never seen by the end user.
Open source made it possible that we can see the source code of some software.
<hr>

## What's the difference between open source software and other types of software?
- Some softwares have source code that only the person, team, or organization who created it and maintains it can modify. This kind of software is called **closed source software**.
Only the original authors of closed source software can legally copy, inspect, and alter that software. To use this software user has to agree to their terms and conditions and promise that you will not alter any feature of that software.
**Microsoft Office** and **Adobe Photoshop** are examples of such softwares. The company distributing the software (i.e., software owner) guarantees a certain level of support, depending on the terms of the SLA
because the source code is closed for review, there can be security issues. If issues are found, the software distributor is responsible for fixing them.
- Open source software is different. Its authors make its source code available to others who would like to view that code, copy it, learn from it, alter it, or share it.
**LibreOffice** and the **GNU Image Manipulation Program** are examples of open source software. As they do with closed source software, users must accept the terms of a license when they use open source software but the legal terms of open
source licenses differ dramatically from those of closed source licenses. Open source software licenses promote collaboration and sharing because they permit other people to modify to source code and incorporate those 
changes into their own projects. Source code is open for review by anyone and everyone. There might be possibility of security bugs and flaws and can pose significant risk.

<hr>

## Is open source software only for computer programmers?
Open source is for both programmers and non-programmers. Anyone using the internet and computer get benifitted from open source. For example, software documentation, hands-on tutorials, etc are some domains for non-programmers where they can contrinute to open source softwares.

<hr>

## How does open source software work?
Open source code is publically stored in a repository and shared. Anyone can access the repository to use the code independently
or contribute improvements to the design and functionality of the overall project.OSS usually comes with a distribution license. This license includes terms that define how developers can use, study, modify,
and most importantly, distribute the software.
<hr>

## Why people choose open source software?
- Many people prefer open source software because they have more control over that kind of software. They can examine the code to make sure it's not doing anything they don't want it to do,
and they can change parts of it they don't like.
- Other people like open source software because it helps them become better programmers. Because open source code is publicly accessible, students can easily study it as they learn to make better software. 
Students can also collaborate with others and make a great software, as they develop their skills.
- Many users prefer open source software to closed source software for important, long-term projects.
<hr>

## Is open source software a free software?
Nearly all open source software is free software, but not every OSS is free. The criteria for open source are concerned solely with the licensing of the source code.
 
First, some open source licenses are too restrictive, so they do not qualify as free licenses where its license does not allow making a modified version and using it privately. Fortunately, few programs use such licenses.
Second, when a program's source code carries a weak license, one without copyleft, its executables can carry additional nonfree (or paid) conditions.

<hr>

## Examples of OSS
- GNU/Linux
- Mozilla Firefox
- VLC media player
- SugarCRM
- IMP
- VNC
- Apache web server
- LibreOffice
- jQuery
- LibreOffice
- Blender 
- and many more ..
<hr>

## Is OSS bug free?
The straight answer is no. With multiple people making enhancements, it will have some bugs. 
However, large number of code contributors also mean that bugs are identified and fixed faster.

Regardless of the type of software—open source or commercial—code flaws will exist. The main difference is who is responsible for fixing the bugs; for commercial software, vendors are responsible, whereas the consumer is responsible for open source software. With a robust set of AppSec tools and practices in place, OSS can be easily secured.

<hr>

# Why you should open source your projects ?

4 Best reasons developers should consider open-source projects:

1. Developers can improve their coding skills and absolutely can be better developer.
2. It can greatly boost your portfolio.
3. By working on Open Source projects even a beginner can get a real-world experience.
4. Open source projects can be easily found and are flexible, so that developer can work on it whenever they have time.

<hr>

# Benefits if contributing to an open source software:

Contributing to an open source software can benefit in many ways out of which let me mention some below,

1. Beginners can learn to write a clean code.
2. One can easily get recognition in their field.
3. Even it's fun and gives a developer personal satisfaction.
4. One can get much deeper knowledge of that software and even of their field.
5. You can work with smartest minds from wherever you are.

<hr>

# Good practices while contributing to an open-source software

1. Read the project’s contributing docs carefully.
2. Ask all the questions to understand work you want to do.
3. Code must be clean.
4. Do checks on your work and then check your work again.
5. Write descriptive and succinct commit messages.
6. Be calm and open to feedbacks.
