# Tutorial on Burp Suite CA

## Installing Burp suite
We install Burp Suite CA certificate to authenticate any source sending traffic into the webserver and thus prevent any unsecured and unknown website from communicating with your browser.

### Installing Burp suite in chrome-
Steps-
1. Open menu and click **Settings** > **Security** > **Manage Certificate**.
2. Open **Certificates** dialog box and click on **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** tab, and click on **Import**.
3. Click on **Browser** and select **cacert.der** from the location file.
4. Click the **next** button
5. From the two options, select the first one **Place all certificates in the following store** and click on browse to **Trusted Rood Certification Authorities**.
6. Click the **Next** button and you will see a message asking you to install the certificate. Click **Yes**. Confirmation message will pop-up.
7. Close chrome and restart it and confirm if Burp Suite is still running.

## Burp Suite Intruder Tab
This is a tool that can be used to carry out different attacks on web applications. This is a very effective tool to test out several testing tasks faster. This tool can be used for a brute-force attack and also used for difficult blind SQL injection operations.
Burp Suite intruder mode is a tool that can be used for the analysis of response and requests. It modifies HTTP request according to your needs.
One needs to specifiy some payloads on every attack and the exact location in the request where the payloads are to be released or placed. 
The Burp Suite algorithm helps in the placement of these payloads.
Burp suite intruders are used to extract useful data and performing operations to check vulnerabilities. 

### Steps to use Burp suite Intruder -
1. Find the identifier which most times is highlighted inside th erequest and also the response confirming the validity.
2. Configure a single payload position that is enough to carry out the attack.
3. Use **payload type** to generate all identifiers needed to test, using the correct format.
4. After entering the details to carry out an attack, click on the **Start attack** button. The result page will appear soon.

## Burp Suite Repeater Tab
Burp Suite Repeater is used to manually alter and re-send individual HTTP requests, and hence the response can further be analyzed. It is a tool used for adjusting parameter details to test for different inputs.
Burp Suite Repeater is made to allow one to work on several requests at the same time with different request tabs.

## Burp Suite Target tab
**Target tab > Site map** tool helps one with an overview of all target application's content and functionality. The left side of the window is in form of a tree view that arranges the content of a URL in a hierarchical order, which splits into domains, directories, folders and files.

The tree branches can be expanded to allow one to see more details and to select an item that one needs information about.

## Burp Suite Scanning
Burp Suite Scanner is a tool used for performing automated scans of websites and web applications to find and remediate vulnerabilities.

There are **2 phases** of the scan
1.**Crawling for contents**- The scaner navigates the whole of the application, the submission of forms, the links, and log in with necessary login credentials to catalog the content of the application.
2.**Auditing for vulnerabilities**-This depends on what the scan configuration is which will involve sending of many requests to the application. It will analyze the appliacation's traffic and behavior.

## Burp suite report generating in HTML and XML
After a scan, one can generate reports of the outcome in HTML or XML form.
To export report generated by Burp suite after scanning, select all the issues in the **site map** or the **issue activity log** and choose **Report selected issues** from the shortcut menu. The Burp scanner reporting wizard will guide you.
