# Set Covering Problem
The set cover problem is a classical question in combinatorics, computer science, operations research and complexity theory. It is one of Karp's 21 NP-complete problems shown to be NP-complete in 1972. It is a problem whose study has led to the development of fundamental techniques for the entire field of approximation algorithms.<br>
There are two types of this problem. One is the decision problem and another is the optimization problem. The decision version of set covering is <b>NP-complete</b> while the optimization version of set covering is <b>NP-hard</b>.

## Problem Description

### Input
Given a Universe of n elements U = { u<sub>1</sub> , u<sub>2</sub> , ... , u<sub>n</sub> }, A collection of subsets of U say S = { S<sub>1</sub> , S<sub>2</sub> , ... , S<sub>k</sub> } where each subset has an associated cost C = { c<sub>1</sub> , c<sub>2</sub>, ... , c<sub>k</sub> }

### Goal
Find a minimum cost subcollection of S that covers all elements of U.

In the un-weighted Set Cover Problem, c<sub>j</sub> = 1 for all j . If each set is assigned a cost, it becomes a weighted set cover problem.

### Approach
There is no polynomial time solution available for this problem as the problem is a known NP-Hard problem. But there is a polynomial time Greedy approximate algorithm which can not give correct result in all cases but will give an approximate result in most cases.This algorithm provides a Log(n) approximation.

### Greedy Approximation Algorithm
1) Let I represents set of elements included so far.  Initialize I = { }
2) Do following while I is not same as U. <br>
    a) Find the set S<sub>i</sub> in {S<sub>1</sub> , S<sub>2</sub> , ... , S<sub>m</sub>} whose cost effectiveness is smallest, i.e., the ratio of cost C(S<sub>i</sub>) and number of newly added elements is minimum. Basically we pick the set for which following value is minimum Cost(S<sub>i</sub>) / |S<sub>i</sub> - I| <br>
    b) Add elements of above picked S<sub>i</sub> to I, i.e.,  I = I U S<sub>i</sub>

### Implementation in Java

    import java.io.*;
    import java.util.ArrayList;
    import java.util.Arrays;
    import java.util.Collections;
    import java.util.Comparator;
    import java.util.LinkedHashSet;
    import java.util.List;
    import java.util.Set;
    public class GFG 
    {
	interface Filter<T> 
    {
		boolean matches(T t);
	}
	private static <T> Set<T>
	shortcombo(Filter<Set<T> > filter, List<T> sets)
	{
		final int size = sets.size();
		if (size > 20)
			throw new IllegalArgumentException("Too many Combinations");
		int comb = 1 << size;
		List<Set<T> > possible = new ArrayList<Set<T> >();
		for (int i = 0; i < comb; i++) 
        {
			Set<T> combination = new LinkedHashSet<T>();
			for (int j = 0; j < size; j++) 
            {
				if (((i >> j) & 1) != 0)
					combination.add(sets.get(j));
			}
			possible.add(combination);
		}
		Collections.sort(possible, new Comparator<Set<T> >() 
            {
				public int compare(Set<T> a1, Set<T> a2)
				{
					return a1.size() - a2.size();
				}
			});
		for (Set<T> possibleSol : possible) 
        {
			if (filter.matches(possibleSol))
				return possibleSol;
		}
		return null;
	}
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		Integer[][] all = 
        {
			{ 1, 2 }, { 3, 4 }, { 8, 9 },
			{ 10, 7 }, { 5, 8 }, { 11, 6 },
			{ 4, 5 }, { 6, 7 }, { 10, 11 },
		};
		Integer[] solution = { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 };
		List<Set<Integer> > sets = new ArrayList<Set<Integer> >();
		for (Integer[] array : all)
			sets.add(new LinkedHashSet<Integer>(Arrays.asList(array)));
		final Set<Integer> sol = new LinkedHashSet<Integer>(Arrays.asList(solution));
		Filter<Set<Set<Integer> > > filter	= new Filter<Set<Set<Integer> > >() 
        {
				public boolean matches(Set<Set<Integer> > integers)
				{
					Set<Integer> union = new LinkedHashSet<Integer>();
					for (Set<Integer> ints : integers)
						union.addAll(ints);
					return union.equals(sol);
				}
		};
		Set<Set<Integer> > firstSol = shortcombo(filter, sets);
		System.out.println("The short combination was : " + firstSol);
	}
    }


