# **Getting started with API**

## **How to connect with an API :**

   <!-- <p> -->

API stands for Application Program Interface, which can be defined as a set of methods of communication between various software components. In other words, an API allows software to communicate with another software.
We can communicate and connect our frontend code with backend database using api.
</br>
I'll try to explain this api with a real life example.
</br>
Assume in you are in a resturant ( you are client (end users)), you ordered a food to waiter ( your order is task and waiter is API) . Waiter goes to kitchen (Kitchen is backend) and get your order ( he retrieve the data from database) and served you.

There are various method when calling and api. Those are </br>

1.  ### _POST Method :_

    It is used when someone try to add data to backend server. Ex : To add a new task to backend database we will use POST method.

2.  ### _GET Method :_

    It is used when you want to fetch some data from backend database . Ex : If you want to get a list of all task you have to use GET Method.

3.  ### _PUT Method :_

    It is used when you want to update some exisiting data in database. Ex : If you want to change task name in your database you have to use PUT Method.

4.  ### _DELETE Method :_
    It is used when you want to Delete some exisiting data from your database. Ex : If you want to remove any task from your database you have to use DELETE Method.

## **How to use axios :**

It's a library that allows us to create API requests, get data,add data,delete data and then use that data in our application.
we have to first install axios in our local system with </br>
`npm install axios`

here we'll demonstrate how to use Axios with axios get, axios post, axios put and axios delete

- GET API:

```
     axios.get("/task");

```

- POST API:

```
     axios.post("/task",dataObject);

```

- PUT API:

```
     axios.put("/task/${id}",dataObject);

```

- DELETE API:

```
     axios.get("/task/${id}");

```

## **how to fetch data from an API :**

You can fetch data from database using axios from api endpoint.
axios will return a promise and we can use that to modify or use to show in our application.

Ex :

```
    axios.get("/task").then(data=>{
        console.log(data);
    })
```

alternatively we can use fetch in place of axios. Here is an example how to get data using fetch

```
fetch('/task')
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```
