# Bisection Method (Binary Search)
The <i>Bisection method</i> is a numerical method to find the <b>roots</b> of any <b>continuous</b> real valued function of which one knows two values of the function with opposite signs. 
Here root of a function $f$ means a value $x$ such that $f(x) = 0$.<br>
The Bisection method is basically a successive approximation method to find the root which narrows down an interval that contains a root of the function $f$. An initial interval $[a,b]$ is provided where $a<b$ and $f(a)f(b)<0$.

## A mathematical theorem

If a real valued function $f(x)$ is continuous on the interval $[a,b]$ and sign of $f(a)$ ≠ sign of $f(b)$, then there exists atleast one value $c ∈ [a,b]$ such that $f(c) = 0$. That is, there is atleast one root $c$ in the interval $[a,b]$.

## Analysis of the Bisection method

From the theorem it is clear that the roots must lie inside the interval $[a,b]$. At each step the method divides the interval in two halves by computing the midpoint $c = \frac{a+b}{2}$ of the interval and the value of the function $f(c)$ at that point. If $c$ is itself a root (which is very unlikely, but obviously possible) then we are done, else there are now only two possibilities : either $f(a)$ and $f(c)$ have opposite signs and thus contains a root inside the interval $[a,c]$, or $f(c)$ and $f(b)$ have opposite signs and contains a root inside the interval $[b,c]$. The method now selects the subinterval that is guaranteed to contain a root as the new interval to be used in the next step. In this way an interval that contains a root of $f$ is reduced in width by 50% at each step. The process is continued until the interval is sufficiently small.<br>
If $f(a)$ and $f(c)$ have opposite signs, then the bisection method sets $c$ as the new value for $b$, and if $f(b)$ and $f(c)$ have opposite signs then the method sets $c$ as the new value for $a$. If $f(c)=0$ then $c$ is taken as the solution and the process stops else we continue this process until we get a value which is approximately equal to the actual value of the root. In both cases as the new $f(a)$ and $f(b)$ have opposite signs, so the method is applicable to the smaller intervals too.<br>
It is a very simple and robust method, but it is also relatively slow. Because of this, it is often used to obtain a rough approximation to a solution which is then used as a starting point for more rapidly converging methods.

## Pseudocode
We can deploy the bisection method using the same technique as we deploy binary search. This method can be implemented using both by iterative approach and recursive approach.



INPUT: Function f, endpoint values a, b, tolerance TOL, maximum iterations NMAX <br>
CONDITIONS: a < b, either f(a) < 0 and f(b) > 0 or f(a) > 0 and f(b) < 0 <br>
OUTPUT: value which differs from a root of f(x) = 0 by less than TOL <br>

### Iterative approach

### Recursive approach