# Difference between Searching and Sorting Algorithms

## What are Sorting Algorithms?

A Sorting Algorithm is used to rearrange a given array or list elements according to a comparison operator on the elements. <br>The comparison operator is used to decide the new order of element in the respective data structure.

There are two different categories in sorting. They are: 

- **Internal Sorting**: When all data is placed in memory, then sorting is called internal sorting.
- **External Sorting**: When all data that needs to be sorted cannot be placed in memory at a time, <br> the sorting is called External Sorting. External Sorting is used for massive amount of data. <br>Merge Sort and its variations are typically used for external sorting. Some external storage like hard-disk, CD, etc <br>is used for external storage. 

## What are Searching Algorithms?

Searching Algorithms are designed to check for an element or retrieve an element from any data structure where it is stored. Based on the type of search operation, these algorithms are generally classified into two categories:

- **Sequential Search**: The Sequential Search is the basic and simple Searching Algorithm. Sequential Search starts at the <br> beginning of the list or array. It traversed the list or array sequentially and checks for every element of the list or array. <br> The Linear Search is an example of the Sequential Search. <br>
A Linear Search checks one by one each element of the array, without jumping to any item. It searches the element <br> in the array until a match is found. If the match is found then it returns the index of the item otherwise it returns the -1. <br>The worst-case complexity of the Linear Search Algorithm is O(N), where N is the total number of elements in the list. 

- **Interval Search**: These algorithms are specifically designed for searching in sorted data-structures.<br> These type of searching algorithms are much more efficient than Linear Search as they repeatedly target the <br> center of the search structure and divide the search space in half. For Example: **Binary Search**.
 <br>
 
 ## Differences Between Sorting and Searching Algorithms



| S.No | Searching Algorithm         | Sorting Algorithm  |
|------|:-------------:|:-----:|
| 1    | Searching Algorithms are designed to retrieve <br>an element from any data structure where it is used. | A Sorting Algorithm is used to arranging the<br> data of list or array into some specific order. |
| 2    | These algorithms are generally classified into <br> two categories i.e. Sequential Search and  <br> Interval Search.      |   There are two different categories in sorting.<br> These are Internal and External Sorting. |
| 3    | There is no stable and unstable searching algorithms.      |  Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort, Merge Sort etc are <br> the stable sorting algorithms whereas Quick Sort,<br> Heap Sort etc are the unstable sorting algorithms. |
| 4    | 	The Linear Search and the Binary Search<br> are the examples of Searching Algorithms. | The Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort, <br> Selection Sort, Merge Sort, Quick Sort etc <br> are the examples of Sorting Algorithms.
| 5    | The worst-case time complexity of searching <br> algorithm is O(N).      |  The worst-case time complexity of many sorting <br> algorithms like Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort<br>, Selection Sort, and Quick Sort is O(N2). |

<br>
