
### Pigeonhole sort is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements and the number of possible key values are approximately the same. 


Time complexity: O(n + Range) time where n is number of elements in input array and ‘Range’ is number of possible values in array. 


Steps:

1.Find minimum and maximum values in the array(arr).
 
2.Create a new array `noOfholes` which would be empty at first and would have size=range where range=(max-min+1)obtained in step1.

3.Traverse through the array `arr` and  put each element in its respective pigeonhole.arr[i] is put in a hole at index arr[i] – min.

4.Now loop over the pigeonhole array and put the elements from non- empty holes back into the original array.

```
//here arr=original array
    int min = arr[0], max = arr[0];
    for (int i = 1; i < n; i++)
    {
        if (arr[i] < min)
            min = arr[i];
        if (arr[i] > max)
            max = arr[i];
    }
    int range = max - min + 1; // Find range
 
    //  Each vector represents a hole that
    // is going to contain matching elements.
    vector<int> noOfholes[range];
 
    // Traverse through input array and put every
    // element in its respective hole
    //n=size of input array
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
        noOfholes[arr[i]-min].push_back(arr[i]);
 
     
    // For every hole, take its elements and put in the array
   
    int k = 0;  // index in sorted array,firstly will point at 0.
    
    for (int i = 0; i < range; i++)
    {
       
       for (int j=0; j<noOfholes[i].size(); j++)
       {
            
            arr[k++]  = noOfholes[i][j];
        }
    }
}

```

#### Lets see its working:

Lets take the elements `2,7,5,3,1,6,3` in the original array.

min:1,max:7

range:7-1+1=7

now we make a holes array whose size is 7,and is empty at first,now we loop through the input array and put inside of the `noOfholes` array the values of arr[i] in the "arr[i]-min " index

in short,index=arr[i]-min,value at that index=arr[i].

- we encounter 2,arr[i]-min=2-1=1,therefore.`index:1,value:2`.

- we encounter 7,arr[i]-min=7-1=6,therefore.`index:6,value:7`.

- we encounter 5,arr[i]-min=5-1=4,therefore.`index:4,value:5`.

- we encounter 3,arr[i]-min=3-1=2,therefore.`index:2,value:3`.

- we encounter 1,arr[i]-min=1-1=0,therefore.`index:0,value:1`.

- we encounter 6,arr[i]-min=6-1=5,therefore.`index:5,value:6`.

- we encounter 3,arr[i]-min=3-1=2,therefore.`index:2,value:3`.

This is how the `noOfholes` array looks like:

`0-1`

`1-2`

`2-3,3`

`3-`

`4-5`

`5-6`

`6-7`

`7-`



We have a sorted array now.

## How is pigeonhole sort different from counting sort:

pigeonhole sort moves items twice- once to the holes array `noOfholes` array here, and again to the original array in sorted order. 

while

in counting sort,we create a count array which stores the count of unique characters in that array,after which we do some calculations to calculate the index of respective characters and finally put inside the output array which in turn at last,copies its content to the original array to make it sorted.

In short,it stores the index of unique characters and their count rather than the element itself which is the case of pigeonhole sort.
