# **Shell Sort**
---
>Shell sort is one of the most efficient of the O(n^2) class of sorting algorithms. The shell sort is a **"Diminishing Incremental Sort"** better known as a **"Comb Sort"** to the unwashed programming masses. This algorithm makes multiple passes through the list and each time sorts a number of equally sized sets using the insertion sort. The size of the set to be sorted gets larger with each pass through the list, until the set consists of entire list.

>The shell sort is an improved version of straight insertion sort in which diminishing partition are used to sort the elements of an array. Here we compare elements that are distance apart rather than the adjacent. We start by comparing elements that are at a certain distance apart, so if there are N elements then we start with a value gap < N, 
>>>where, gap = (floor)(N/2) , N = No. of elements in an array

>In each pass we keep reducing the value of gap, till we reach the last pass when the gap is 1.
>In the last pass shell sort becomes exactly like insertion sort.

>## ***Algorithm of shell sort***
>>This algorithm sorts the array arr[MAXSIZE]

>>1.   Initialise gap = (floor) (N/2) and set I = 0
              N = no. of elements in an array

>>2.   Repeat steps 3 to 9 until gap >= 1

>>3.   Repeat steps 4 to 8 until I < MAXSIZE

>>4.   Set J = I and temp = arr[ I ].

>>5.   Repeat steps 6 to 7 
          until J >= gap and arr[J-gap] > temp

>>6.   set arr[ J ] = arr[ J - gap ]

>>7.   set J = J + gap

>>8.   set arr[ J ] = temp

>>9.   set gap = gap/2



## ***Code for working of algorithm of Shell Sort in Java***
public class SortingAlgo {
    
    public static void main(String []args){
        
        int[] arr = {77,62,-14,9,30,21,80,-25,70,55};  //array to be sorted

        shellSort(arr);

        for(int i: arr){
            System.out.print(i+" ");
        }
    }

    //function for implementation of shell sort algorithm
    static void shellSort(int arr[]){

        int len = arr.length;
        int gap = len/2;

        while(gap>=1){

            for(int i = 0 ; i<len ; i++){

                int j = i;
                int temp = arr[i];

                // shift earlier gap-sorted elements up until the correct location for a[i] is found
                while( (j >= gap) && (arr[j-gap] > temp)){
                    arr[j] = arr[j - gap];
                    j = j - gap;
                }

                //put temp in its original position
                arr[j] = temp;
            }

            gap = gap/2; //reducing the value of gap at each iteration
        }

    }
}