
## **What is Interpolation search?**<br>
Interpolation search is an algorithm for searching for a key in an array that has been ordered by numerical values assigned to the keys (key values).<br><br>
Given a sorted array arr[] of size n and an element x to be searched in it. Return index of x if it is present in array else return -1. 
 <br><br>

## **Explaination:**
<br>
     1. The Interpolation Search is an improvement over Binary Search for instances, where the values in a sorted array are uniformly distributed. <br>
     2.Binary Search always goes to the middle element to check. On the other hand, interpolation search may go to different locations according to the value of the key being searched.
          For example, if the value of the key is closer to the last element, interpolation search is likely to start search toward the end side.<br>
     3. Returns position of desired elememnt.<br>
     4.  Formula:  

       pos = lo + [ (x-arr[lo])*(hi-lo) / (arr[hi]-arr[Lo]) ]
        arr[] ==> Array where elements need to be searched 
         x ==> Element to be searched 
         lo ==> Starting index in arr[] 
         hi ==> Ending index in arr[]


<br><br>


## **Space complexity:** 
<br>
It’s quite evident that we are not using any significant extra memory in Interpolation Search. So the space complexity is constant, i.e. O(1).
<br><br>


## **Time complexity:** 
<br>
If the data set is sorted and uniformly distributed, the average case time complexity of Interpolation Search is O(log2(log2N)) where N is the total number of elements in the array.
<br><br>


## **Background:** 
<br>
Uniformly distributed array means difference between any two consucutive elements is same.
<br><br>






## **Steps:**
<br>
 1. Start searching data from middle of the list.<br>
 2. If it is a match, return the index of the item, and exit. <br>
 3. If it is not a match, probe position.<br>
 4. Divide the list using probing formula and find the new middle. <br>
 5. If data is greater than middle, search in higher sub-list. <br>
 6. If data is smaller than middle, search in lower sub-list. <br>
 7. Repeat until match.<br>



<br><br>


## **Algorithm:**
<br>

     int InterpolationSearch(vector<int> array, int X) {
    int n = array.size(); 
    int low = 0; 
    int high = n - 1; 
    while (low <= high && X >= array[low] && X <= array[high]) {
        int index = low + ((X - array[low]) * (high - low)) / (array[high] - array[low]);
        if (array[index] < X) { low = index + 1; } 
        else if (array[index] > X) { high = index - 1; }
        else {  return index; } 
        
    } 
        return -1; 
    }
        


<br><br>


## **Implementation:**
<br>

 

     #include <bits/stdc++.h>
     using namespace std;

     int InterpolationSearch(vector<int> array, int X) ;

     int main()
     { cout<<"Enter the total number of elements:"<<endl;
     int n;
     cin>>n;
     vector<int> array;
     cout<<"Enter elements in array:"<<endl;
     while(n--){
       int num;
       cin>>num;
       array.push_back(num);
      }
      cout<<"Enter element that to be searched:"<<endl;
     int X;
     cin>>X;
   
      int ans=InterpolationSearch(array,X);
     cout<<ans<<endl;
      return 0;
     }







<br>

## *Output:*
<br>
Enter the total number of elements:9<br>
Enter elements in array<br>
 4 6 7 9 11 34 67 87 901 1002<br>
Enter element to be searched:901<br>
<br>
Found at index:8
