# Boyer Moore Algorithm for Pattern Searching

* The B-M String search algorithm is a particularly efficient algorithm and has served as a standard benchmark for string search algorithm ever since.

* The B-M algorithm takes a 'backward' approach: the pattern string (P) is aligned with the start of the text string (T), and then compares the characters of a pattern from right to left, beginning with rightmost character.

* If a character is compared that is not within the pattern, no match can be found by analyzing any further aspects at this position so the pattern can be changed entirely past the mismatching character.

* For deciding the possible shifts, B-M algorithm uses two preprocessing strategies simultaneously. Whenever a mismatch occurs, the algorithm calculates a variation using both approaches and selects the more significant shift thus, if make use of the most effective strategy for each case.

#### The two strategies are called heuristics of B - M as they are used to reduce the search. They are:

    1. Bad Character Heuristics
    2. Good Suffix Heuristics
    
Both of the above heuristics can also be used independently to search a pattern in a text. Let us first understand how two independent approaches work together in the Boyer Moore algorithm. If we take a look at the Naive algorithm, it slides the pattern over the text one by one. KMP algorithm does preprocessing over the pattern so that the pattern can be shifted by more than one. The Boyer Moore algorithm does preprocessing for the same reason. It processes the pattern and creates different arrays for each of the two heuristics. At every step, it slides the pattern by the max of the slides suggested by each of the two heuristics. **So it uses greatest offset suggested by the two heuristics at every step.**
Unlike the previous pattern searching algorithms, **the Boyer Moore algorithm starts matching from the last character of the pattern.**

## Bad Character Heuristic

The idea of bad character heuristic is simple. The character of the text which doesn’t match with the current character of the pattern is called the Bad Character. Upon mismatch, we shift the pattern until – 
1) The mismatch becomes a match
2) Pattern P moves past the mismatched character.

### Case 1 – Mismatch become match 
We will lookup the position of the last occurrence of the mismatched character in the pattern, and if the mismatched character exists in the pattern, then we’ll shift the pattern such that it becomes aligned to the mismatched character in the text T. 

### Explanation:
In the above example, we got a mismatch at position 3. Here our mismatching character is “A”. Now we will search for last occurrence of “A” in pattern. We got “A” at position 1 in pattern (displayed in Blue) and this is the last occurrence of it. Now we will shift pattern 2 times so that “A” in pattern get aligned with “A” in text.
### Case 2 – Pattern move past the mismatch character 
We’ll lookup the position of last occurrence of mismatching character in pattern and if character does not exist we will shift pattern past the mismatching character. 

### Explanation:
Here we have a mismatch at position 7. The mismatching character “C” does not exist in pattern before position 7 so we’ll shift pattern past to the position 7 and eventually in above example we have got a perfect match of pattern (displayed in Green). We are doing this because “C” does not exist in the pattern so at every shift before position 7 we will get mismatch and our search will be fruitless.
In the following implementation, we preprocess the pattern and store the last occurrence of every possible character in an array of size equal to alphabet size. If the character is not present at all, then it may result in a shift by m (length of pattern). Therefore, the bad character heuristic takes O(n/m) time in the best case.

## Code

/* C++ Program for Bad Character Heuristic of Boyer
Moore String Matching Algorithm */
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
#define NO_OF_CHARS 256
 
// The preprocessing function for Boyer Moore's
// bad character heuristic
void badCharHeuristic( string str, int size,
                        int badchar[NO_OF_CHARS])
{
    int i;
 
    // Initialize all occurrences as -1
    for (i = 0; i < NO_OF_CHARS; i++)
        badchar[i] = -1;
 
    // Fill the actual value of last occurrence
    // of a character
    for (i = 0; i < size; i++)
        badchar[(int) str[i]] = i;
}
 
/* A pattern searching function that uses Bad
Character Heuristic of Boyer Moore Algorithm */
void search( string txt, string pat)
{
    int m = pat.size();
    int n = txt.size();
 
    int badchar[NO_OF_CHARS];
 
    /* Fill the bad character array by calling
    the preprocessing function badCharHeuristic()
    for given pattern */
    badCharHeuristic(pat, m, badchar);
 
    int s = 0; // s is shift of the pattern with
                // respect to text
    while(s <= (n - m))
    {
        int j = m - 1;
 
        /* Keep reducing index j of pattern while
        characters of pattern and text are
        matching at this shift s */
        while(j >= 0 && pat[j] == txt[s + j])
            j--;
 
        /* If the pattern is present at current
        shift, then index j will become -1 after
        the above loop */
        if (j < 0)
        {
            cout << "pattern occurs at shift = " <<  s << endl;
 
            /* Shift the pattern so that the next
            character in text aligns with the last
            occurrence of it in pattern.
            The condition s+m < n is necessary for
            the case when pattern occurs at the end
            of text */
            s += (s + m < n)? m-badchar[txt[s + m]] : 1;
 
        }
 
        else
            /* Shift the pattern so that the bad character
            in text aligns with the last occurrence of
            it in pattern. The max function is used to
            make sure that we get a positive shift.
            We may get a negative shift if the last
            occurrence of bad character in pattern
            is on the right side of the current
            character. */
            s += max(1, j - badchar[txt[s + j]]);
    }
}
 
/* Driver code */
int main()
{
    string txt= "ABAAABCD";
    string pat = "ABC";
    search(txt, pat);
    return 0;
}

### Output: 

 pattern occurs at shift = 4

**The Bad Character Heuristic may take O(mn) time in worst case.** The worst case occurs when all characters of the text and pattern are same. For example, txt[] = “AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA” and pat[] = “AAAAA”. The Bad Character Heuristic may take O(n/m) in the best case. The best case occurs when all all the characters of the text and pattern are different. 
