# Practice Git and Github fundamentals

Imagine you are working on a project and you add some code to it that breaks the project and you want to rollback to that point in that before the change was made.
Git facilitates that by acting as a Version control System.

## Issues faced by early developers before git

* Developers had to submit their codes to the `central server` without having copies of their own
* Any changes made to the source code were unknown to the other developers
* There was no communication between any of the developers

## How git changed the scenario

* Every developer has an entire copy of the code on their `local systems`
* Any changes made to the source code can be tracked by others
* There is regular communication between the developers

## What is git?
 
Git is a `version control` system used for tracking changes in computer files. It is generally used for source code management in software development:

* Git is used to `track changes` in the source code
* The distributed version control tool is used for source code management
* It allows multiple developers to work together
* It supports non-linear development through its thousands of `parallel branches`

## What is Github

`Github` is a service based upon `git` where people can share their code, contribute to Open Source, etc. 

Imagine you are given a room to do whatever you want to with your accessories , customize our furniture as per you suitability ( each day ) any time. 
Permitted to share the place with some one, bring people to come at your place and party together and you don’t have to pay or rent all this with any bills. 
How cool would that be…!!

Github is a similar space. You have got a free space to put in you code whatever may be your file type - python, java, c, html, js, nodejs…etc. 
You may customize your code any day, any time, any where (having network connection). 
You may allow people / fellow coders to contribute, commit changes to your work. 
Download your project’s code and use it for their work. Follow you and your work and lot more.

## Git vs Github

Git is used to store the source code for a project and track the complete history of all changes to that code. It allows developers to collaborate on a project more effectively by providing tools for managing possibly conflicting changes from multiple developers. GitHub facilitates social coding by providing a Web interface to the Git code repository and management tools for collaboration. GitHub allows developers to change, adapt and improve software from its public & private repositories.

## Getting started with git

### Step 0: Install git and create a GitHub account.
### Step 1: 



