##  What is open source software?
Open source software (OSS) is software with source code made available for everyone,so that people can inspect and enhance it.Source code is a part of a app or computer program which can be never seen by a user .
Open source made it possible that we can see the source code of some softwares.
<hr>

## What's the difference between open source software and other types of software?
- Some softwares have source code that only the person, team, or organization who created it and maintains it can modify. This kind of software is called **closed source software**.
Only the original authors of closed source software can legally copy, inspect, and alter that software. In order to use this software user has to agree to their terms and conditions and promise that you will not alter any feature of that software.
**Microsoft Office** and **Adobe Photoshop** are examples of such softwares.The company distributing the software (i.e., software owner) guarantees a certain level of support, depending on the terms of the SLA
because the source code is closed for review, there can be security issues. If issues are found, the software distributor is responsible for fixing them.
- Open source software is different. Its authors make its source code available to others who would like to view that code, copy it, learn from it, alter it, or share it.
**LibreOffice** and the **GNU Image Manipulation Program** are examples of open source software.As they do with closed source software, users must accept the terms of a license when they use open source software but the legal terms of open
source licenses differ dramatically from those of closed source licenses. Open source software licenses promote collaboration and sharing because they permit other people to modify to source code and incorporate those 
changes into their own projects. Source code is open for review by anyone and everyone. There might be possiblity of  security bugs and flaws and can pose significant risk.

<hr>

## Is open source software only for computer programmers?
Open source is for both programmers and non-programmers.Anyone using the internet and computer get benifitted from open source.

<hr>

## How does open source software work?
Open source code is publically stored in a  repository and shared. Anyone can access the repository to use the code independently
or contribute improvements to the design and functionality of the overall project.OSS usually comes with a distribution license. This license includes terms that define how developers can use, study, modify,
and most importantly, distribute the software.
<hr>

## Why people choose open source software?
- Many people prefer open source software because they have more control over that kind of software. They can examine the code to make sure it's not doing anything they don't want it to do,
and they can change parts of it they don't like.
- Other people like open source software because it helps them become better programmers. Because open source code is publicly accessible, students can easily study it as they learn to make better software. 
Students can also collaborate with others and make a great software , as they develop their skills.
- Many users prefer open source software to closed source software for important, long-term projects.
<hr>

## Is open source software a free software?
No.People have many misconceptions about it.Open source software owners can charge money for oss.
<hr>

## Examples of OSS
- GNU/Linux
- Mozilla Firefox
- VLC media player
- SugarCRM
- IMP
- VNC
- Apache web server
- LibreOffice
- jQuery
- LibreOffice
- Blender and many more ..
<hr>

## Is OSS bug free?
No. With multiple people making enhancements, it will have some bugs. However, the broad base of code contributors can also mean that bugs are identified and fixed faster.
<hr>

##  Advantages and Disadvantages of open source software
### Advantages
1. OSS is free.
2. OSS is flexible.
3. OSS is stable.
4. OSS always comes with a community that continuously modifies and improves the source code.
5. Open source provides great learning opportunities for new programmers.

### Disadvantages
1. The biggest disadvantage of OSS is that, it can be harder to use and adapt due to difficulty setting it up and the lack of friendly user interfaces.
2. OSS rarely contains any warranty, liability, or infringement indemnity protection.
3. OSS can incur unexpected costs in setting up required hardware.
7. Open source provides great learning opportunities for new programmers.
