<b><h1 align ="center">Challenges in Information security</h1></b>

<br>
<br>

<b><h3 align ="center">Big exposure comes with a lot of Vulnerabilities</h3></b>

With a large pool of information coming online, the amount of assets we collect, produce, distribute, share and manage has increased exponentially, many of those assets have extraordinary value to individuals.

With that being said,<b> Managing this amount of information securely is a challenge in the industry.</b> The challenges of information management are typically related to the breadth and depth of the information being gathered and shared and the methods by which they are shared. It becomes difficult for organizations to manage the flow of new security-related information in and out of the company. Some common issues that organizations have to face include

*  the sheer volume of security data
*  the complexity of the information being disseminated
*  the multiple sources of new information
*  how to best communicate new security vulnerabilities to the general user public.

<br>
<hr>
<br>
<b><h3 align ="center">Phishing Continues to Be a Problem</h3></b>

Phishing is one of the most common types of cyberattacks, mainly because it is often an effective technique for gaining access to an organization’s network and systems. It’s usually easier to trick an employee into handing over sensitive data (like login credentials) or running a piece of malware on a company computer than it is to accomplish these goals through other means.

For example, the surge in remote work caused by the COVID-19 pandemic drove many organizations to adopt online collaboration such as Zoom, Slack, etc. The focus on email in phishing awareness training means that employees often do not consider it a threat on these platforms, and workers often believe that only legitimate users can access these platforms, which is not always true.

<br>
<hr>
<br>

<b><h3 align ="center">Cloud Adoption Outpaces Security</h3></b>

Cloud adoption has been rapidly rising for years and exploded as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. With a remote workforce, companies needed the accessibility, flexibility, and scalability offered by cloud-based solutions.

However, while many companies are moving rapidly to the cloud, security is lagging behind. Cloud infrastructure is very different from an on-premise data center, and these differences introduce unique security challenges. Many organizations are still working to understand these differences, leaving their cloud deployments at risk.

Most of us today use cloud services for personal and professional needs. Also, hacking cloud-platforms to steal user data is one of the challenges in Cyber Security for businesses. We are all aware of the infamous iCloud hack, which exposed private photos of celebrities.

<br>
<hr>
<br>

<b><h3 align ="center">The Rise of Double-Extortion Ransomware</h3></b>

Yes, Nowadays ransomware does not just encrypt the files, they exfiltrate the data first. That means if the victim refuses to pay up, information can be leaked online or sold to the highest bidder.

In 2021, ransomware attacks continue to grow in popularity, and more groups are switching to the “double extortion” model. For example, the relatively new DarkSide group uses this technique and has carried off attacks like the one against Colonial Pipeline that was deemed a national emergency in the U.S.

<br>
<hr>
<br>

<b><h3 align ="center">Increasing numbers of IoT Attacks </h3></b>

As the Internet of things (IoT) devices in homes, industrial environments, transportation networks, and elsewhere continue to proliferate, so does the attack surface for malicious IoT network attackers.

Security researchers from F-Secure have issued a stark warning that cyberattacks on IoT devices are now accelerating at an unprecedented rate.

The researchers put this increase in attacks down to the increase in the number of IoT devices being deployed around the world. In recent months, we have seen multiple warnings on the vulnerability of such devices to attack. This is partly due to a basic lack of defenses in aging firmware or architectures, and part down to a lack of infosec housekeeping. Often IT departments are not even aware of all these devices on their networks, making the task of patching security issues near impossible.

<br>
<hr>
<br>

<b><h3 align ="center">A New Focus on Mobile Devices </h3></b>

Most organizations have a Bring-Your-Own-Device(BYOD) policy for their employees. With the growth of remote work, this trend is unlikely to reverse itself. Employees working from home or from anywhere are more likely to use mobile devices than those working from the office. With the increased use of mobile devices for business purposes comes new cybersecurity risks.

Having such systems poses multiple challenges in Cyber Security. Firstly, if the device is running an outdated or pirated version of the software, it is already an excellent medium for hackers to access. Since the method is being used for personal and professional reasons, hackers can easily access confidential business data. Secondly, these devices make it easier to access your private network if their security is compromised.

<br>
<hr>
<br>
<b><h3 align ="center">Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Attacks</h3></b>

Even the market hots are not left behind when it comes to security.

Although blockchain and cryptocurrency might not mean much to the average internet user, these technologies are a huge deal for businesses.

Most of us have heard of the Poly Attack which happened a while ago in which hackers have attacked one of the largest decentralized finance platforms. Though in this case, the unknown culprit behind the hack has returned most of the money but this doesn't happen always.

<br>
<hr>


<br>

In conclusion, Cyber security is a cat and mouse game between cyber attackers and defenders. As cyber attackers develop new tools and techniques, cyber defenders create solutions for identifying and blocking them. This inspires cybercriminals to innovate to bypass or overcome these defenses, and so on.
