#<div align=center>Migration from Dagger1 to Dagger2 in Android.</div>

The way for a gradual migration is to slowly migrate piece by piece of the codebase without breaking the code that hasn't been migrated yet. The only way to do that is if we can have Dagger 1 and Dagger 2 as dependencies at the same time working together. And even though that may seem a very unlikely scenario, that's actually possible to achieve.

It suggests the idea of using the Gradle Shadow Plugin (which is basically the Gradle version of the Maven Shade Plugin) to relocate Dagger 2 packages so they can be referenced by other names, avoiding clashes with Dagger 1 annotations.
What this means is that after the setup is done, we can write things like these, for instance:

```kt
class MyClass @Inject @Inject2 constructor() { // now this class belongs to both graphs
  ...
}

@Module(complete = false, library = true)
@Module2
class MyModule {

  @Provides fun provideSomething() = ...
  
  @Provides @Provides2 fun provideSomethingElseOnBothGraphs() = ...  
}
```
This enables the step by step migration we want. We can now easily choose whether a class should be in both graphs, and we can easily migrate it from one graph to the other. We can mirror a whole Dagger 1 module to Dagger 2 by just applying some annotations, and we can also choose to bring only a few specific @Provides methods if we want.
The migration process becomes safer because we can choose until where we want to go and how much we want to affect by simply adding or removing annotations in the right places. Sometimes it really feels like we're performing a surgery in our object graph creature, limb by limb.
One annoyance about this strategy is how to setup the Dagger 2 dependency to make this work — and that's actually the main reason I decided to write this blogpost. Having to build the setup yourself is an unpleasant chore, so we created a repository to help with that:

Now all you have to do to start working with a shaded version of Dagger 2 is add this in your build:


```kt
repositories {
  maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}

dependencies {
  implementation 'com.github.blinkist.dagger2-shaded:dagger2-shaded-library:2.25.2'
  kapt 'com.github.blinkist.dagger2-shaded:dagger2-shaded-compiler:2.25.2'
}
```

It currently only supports the latest version of Dagger 2. If you want a different version, you can fork the repository, change the `dagger.version` property in the parent POM file, and use [JitPack](https://jitpack.io/) on your own repo. And when a newer Dagger version comes out, PRs are more than welcome!

Assisted Injection
==================

If you want to be able to take advantage of [AssistedInject](https://github.com/square/AssistedInject) (I wrote a bit about it [here](https://proandroiddev.com/dagger-assisted-injection-2002885b3cba)) during the migration (like we do) then there's more work needed. Unfortunately, the shade plugin trick won't work here since there's some hardcoded references on AssistedInject. So the only solution is to fork it and update those references.

Behold our fork:

If you want AssistedInject alongside Dagger 2 Shaded, you just need this in your build:
```kt
repositories {
  maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}

dependencies {
  implementation 'com.github.blinkist.AssistedInject:assisted-inject-annotations-dagger2:0.5.1-dagger2-shaded-friendly'
  kapt 'com.github.blinkist.AssistedInject:assisted-inject-processor-dagger2:0.5.1-dagger2-shaded-friendly'
}
```

With that out of the way, we can focus on the actual migration. There are lots of great resources out there with good tips, including the dedicated page about this in the official documentation. Be aware of your @Singletons (you don't want a singleton on both graphs, otherwise it's simply not a singleton anymore), and make sure you go through Fernando Cejas' blogpost to get more insights. But there's one more interesting concept I'd like to explore a bit here.
Avoiding the rabbit holes
Sometimes we have very long dependency chains, where one class depends on other classes, that depend on other classes, and this goes on and on. If we end up stumbling upon one of these classes in the middle of a migration effort, it's important to have a strategy to avoid having to go all the way down the rabbit hole every time.
Whenever we feel we've migrated enough (we really don't want to end up with huge migration PRs), we create what we call bridge modules to close the gaps between our current Dagger 2 graph and the rest of the rabbit hole we decided not to follow. Let's say during a migration we reach this class:


```kt
class RandomClass @Inject constructor(
  private val oneDependency: OneDependency,
  private val anotherDependency: AnotherDependency
) {
  ... 
}
```

We want to move RandomClass to Dagger 2, but we don't want to deal with its dependencies now, since they also have their own many dependencies. This is the bridge module we could create:

```kt
@Module2
object RandomClassBridgeModule {

  @JvmStatic @Provides2
  fun provideOneDependency(context: Context): OneDependency = context.getFromDagger1()

  @JvmStatic @Provides2
  fun provideAnotherDependency(context: Context): AnotherDependency = context.getFromDagger1()
}

```


It's a simple Dagger 2 module that provides the two dependencies that haven't been migrated. And we get these dependencies from the Dagger 1 graph itself thanks to that neat extension. Assuming we can easily access the object graph from the application class, that's how we can write that extension:


```kt

inline val Context.objectGraph get() = (applicationContext as BlinkistApplication).objectGraph

inline fun <reified T> Context.getFromDagger1(): T = objectGraph.get(T::class.java)
```

This won't work with generics, but it'll still be helpful in all the other cases. Now, next time we're migrating more classes to Dagger 2, we can choose to start from that point, and we can start by getting rid of the bridge module and actually migrating those classes. It's actually a good idea to group all these bridges modules together so it's easy to get a snapshot of what are the rabbit holes we haven't fully dug yet:

```kt
@Module2(includes = [RandomClassBridgeModule::class, AnotherBridgeModule::class])
interface BridgeModule
```

And another option is to have just a single BridgeModule with all the dependencies we need there. This probably works well in the beginning, and if it grows too much we can always split it up in different modules later.
The main point is to find a way to keep the migration under control and move forward safely without having to create big disruptions.

So that is all that you need to get started with the Extension Function in Android (Kotlin) , if you have any doubts you can definetly visit the official documentation of [kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html).

# Migration from Dagger1 to Dagger2 in Android(Audio)
[Migration from Dagger1 to Dagger2 in Android](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1WX3HW0KBznnyzDKITV3ewxtBniQguFR_?usp=sharing)

### References-:

- For preparing these documents official documentation of [kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html)and was referred for maintaining the authenticity of the code and also for making the topics more informative some external sources like [blogs](https://proandroiddev.com/dagger-1-and-dagger-2-together-917f082b3dd9) were referred.

Authors-eshan and shreyansh
