# Introduction

When starting to learn React, the beginners come across a few frequently used words in a syntactical form in React examples _import_, _export_, _modules_, and many more. Many questions might arise in one of the React learning brains some of which may be :

1. What do these terms mean and what makes them so necessary in React?

2. What aspects of React make them necessary.

_Through this documentation I would like to explain these concepts in much more detail to all those beginners out there seeking to know more about different aspects of these new terms._

## Import and Export

The plain, simple English dictionary meaning of the words **import** and **export** are roughly defined as
> to bring in/out across the border

Similarly, these words explain a kind of **border-crossing** in the land of JavaScript.

Whenever you set up a basic react project you are provided with a _boilerplate_ for your project and henceforth you start building your project on it.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import './style.css'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello World</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

In the above code snippet you can see that we have imported **React** from the 'react' path into the file App.js. The second line shows we have imported our stylesheet _style.css_ which is present in the same directory as that of the file displayed in the code.

So from the above example, we can see that we can import npm packages, their sub-packages, stylesheets, and different .jsx files into main .jsx file which renders a whole page. This gives us the bigger picture of _modularity_.

**Modularity** - breaking of codes into smaller groups which can be reused into any component, in the case of React it is importing the component using the syntax:

```javascript
import <FileName> from '<path_of_file>'
```

The approach of modularity gives us a better approach at understanding the code as it breaks larger code into smaller pieces and also helps us to debug the code faster.

With this concept of modularity let dive deeper into modules.

## Modules

_A module encapsulates a set of related functions and components semantically related with its functional responsibility._

Let's understand the above statement with a simple example.

Suppose you are building a video conferencing web app using React, for this you would need to have access to the user's web camera and turn it on when the user clicks on the button to turn it on. So to perform the above task you would incorporate all the functions to access the web camera and logic to turn on and off the camera when required into a single file which would be called a module. So in this module, you have related functions and components (web camera and its related actions ) which if required can work independently and can be _imported_ anywhere as and when required.

So from the above example, it would be clear that modules are created as per the usage in a particular scenario or a specific web application.

### Different methods of import in React

1. **Importing default export**: Every module has said to be had at most one default export. To use that module in any other component we can use the address of the module and with the _import_ keyword.

```javascript
import <FileName> from '<path_of_file>'
```

2. **Importing named values**: Every module can be said to have named values that have their default exports and to import those we follow the following syntax:

```javascript
import { Named_Val } from <path_of_module>
```

In the above case to import multiple parameters or named values from the same module we can add those in the same curly braces separated by comas _(,)_.

3. **Importing a combination of default export and named**: The syntax for this would be;

```javascript
import Given_Name, {Named_Val_1,...} from <path_of_module>
```

```jsx
// React.js Code Snippet for combination import
import React, { Component } from react
```

In the  above code snippet you can see an example of combined import where **React** is being imported as the default export name and **Component** is a named parameter of the module _react_.

## Exporting

Importing a module is only possible if the given name or a named value in the module has been exported in its declaration. In React, we use the **export** keyword to export a particular module or a named parameter in a module or a combination of both.

### Different methods of export in React

1. **Exporting default export**: In the previous explanation we have seen that any module created requires at least one export default. The syntax for the same is:

```javascript
export default <given_name>
```

```jsx
//React.js Code Snippet 
export default function Button() {
  return (
    <button></button>
  );
}
```

In the above code snippet, you can see we are exporting Button Function Component using **default export**.

2. **Export named values**: We previously saw importing named values, similarly we can export named values and also multiple of them separated by commas. The syntax for the same is:

```javascript
export { NAMED_VAL, ... }
```

**Default Values vs Named Values** - When multiple components are being imported/exported we use Named Values (those in curly braces **{}**)and for a single module exported as a whole we use default values.

**Default Import**

```jsx
// React.js code snippet for Default Import
import A from './A'
```

The above syntax would only work if **A** has _default export_.

## Absolute Imports
The React application can also be configured to support imports from absolute paths (fixed paths or parent directory). This can be done by configuring `jsconfig.json` or in the case of **TypeScript** it would be `tsconfig.json`.

Below is an example of how you would configure the `jsconfig.json` said file.

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "src"
  },
  "include": ["src"]
}
```

After configuring this you can import any components from the path :

> src/components 

as

```javascript
import Button from 'components/Button';
```

## Reference Links

1. [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/reactjs-importing-exporting/)
2. [Medium](https://medium.com/@baintonw/importing-and-exporting-in-react-91bf7c3e5e45)
3. [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/importing-a-component/)