# Redux 

## What is Redux?
Redux is an open source JavaScript library. Its used for storing the state of the variables in your app.
Original authors are Andrew Clark and Dan Abramov and Redux was released on 2015.
It can be used together with React, Angular or Vue. A very small library of only 2kB size but is widely used because of its flexibilty and amazing features.

## Before jumping into redux following are some prerequisites:
1. knowledge of HTML, CSS and JavaScript
2. knowledge of objects and arrays 
3. knowledge of React
4. Knowledge of asynchronous JavaScript 

## Purpose of using Redux:
Redux can run on any environment be it client, server or native. it has some amazing features like undo, redo and a lot more. 
flexible as it has many addons and works well wth any kind of UI you create. Familiar with React but not with Vue or may be the other way round? Redux
works with any of these libraries like React, Angular or Vue. It is very useful when you want to update the app oftenly
and when there's a large amount of states you have made in your app and you need to frequently change to different pages. 

## Installing Redux 
As per the official recommendations, redux toolkit is prefered for building any redux app. The toolkit provides REdux Thunk, Reselect and 
many more for effiecient Redux development. To install it use the following commands in the Node application 

`# NPM
npm install @reduxjs/toolkit

# Yarn
yarn add @reduxjs/toolkit`

After that create a Redux app and get started to work on it.