## What is Red Hat OpenShift?

Red Hat OpenShift is an enterprise open source container orchestration platform. It’s a software product that includes components of the Kubernetes container management project, but adds productivity and security features that are important to large-scale companies.

"OpenShift" refers to the downstream container orchestration technology derived from the OKD (OKD is a distribution of Kubernetes optimised for continuous application development and multi-tenant deployment)open source project (previously known as OpenShift Origin). 
"Red Hat OpenShift" refers to the suite of container orchestration products by Red Hat.

Red Hat OpenShift focuses on an enterprise user experience. It’s designed to provide everything a full-scale company may need to orchestrate containers—including enhanced security options and full-time professional support—and to integrate directly into enterprises’ custom IT stacks, which may include:

->Red Hat products like Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.
->Open source projects like Jenkins.
->Major public cloud providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure.


## Product Overview

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is the industry-leading hybrid cloud platform powered by containers and Kubernetes. Using OpenShift Container Platform simplifies and accelerates the development, delivery, and lifecycle management of a hybrid mix of applications, consistently anywhere across on-premise, public clouds, and edge. Whether modernising existing applications, developing new cloud-native applications, integrating data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) capabilities to achieve data driven insights, or integrating software from independent software vendors (ISVs) and cloud providers, OpenShift Container Platform is designed to deliver continuous innovation and speed at any scale, helping organisations to be ready for today and build for the future.
 

## OpenShift Container Platform

OpenShift Container Platform is self-managed and includes Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system, over-the-air updates, container runtime, networking, ingress, monitoring, logging, container registry, authentication, and authorisation solutions. These components are tested together for unified operations on a complete Kubernetes platform spanning every cloud.

** Red Hat OpenShift includes supported runtimes for popular languages, frameworks, and databases. Additional capabilities listed are from the Red Hat Application Services and Red Hat Data Services portfolios.

## Advanced capabilities of RedHat OpenShift

OpenShift Container Platform supports multiple advanced capabilities.

a.)Automated Day 1 and Day 2 operations
  ->Operators provide automated installation, upgrades and life-cycle management for applications, ensuring applications are running correctly and making necessary changes to comply with the desired configuration.  
  ->Helm brings a Kubernetes-native package manager that developers can use to package their applications and define how to package, deploy, and configure them. It can also automate Day 1 tasks and a limited number of Day 2 operations.
 
b.)Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh provides a uniform way to manage, connect, and observe applications as managing and security between services becomes more challenging. 

c.)Red Hat OpenShift Serverless allows an application to use compute resources and automatically scale up or down based on use, driven on demand from some event sources. 

d.)Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines brings a Kubernetes-native continuous integration and continuous development (CI/CD) solution on Tekton that provides a streamlined user experience through the OpenShift console. 

e.)Red Hat OpenShift GitOps is built from the open source Argo CD project and lets IT teams implement GitOps workflows for cluster configuration and application delivery for faster, more secure, and scalable software development.

f.)Red Hat OpenShift Virtualization brings virtual machines to OpenShift to modernize existing applications or run them alongside containers, and serverless, in a Kubernetes-native architecture.

g.)Edge computing includes 3-node clusters, remote worker nodes, and single nodes to provide organisations full Kubernetes capabilities in a smaller footprint.
 
h.)Red Hat OpenShift supports diverse workloads and provides consistency across applications with a common platform to accelerate the deployment of intelligent applications across a hybrid cloud environment. 
Supported workloads include: 
->Databases.
->Data analytics. 
->AI and ML software, programming languages, and frameworks.
->Logging and monitoring.
->Web and application servers.
->Message broker services. 



## OpenShift for developers:

Red Hat OpenShift is a Kubernetes distribution focused on developer experience and application security that's platform agnostic. OpenShift helps you develop and deploy applications to one or more hosts. These can be public facing web applications, or backend applications, including micro services or databases. Applications can be implemented in any programming language you choose. The only requirement is that the application can run within a container.

In terms of cloud service computing models, OpenShift implements the functionality of both a Platform as a Service (PaaS) and a Container as a Service (CaaS). Using OpenShift as a CaaS, you can bring a pre-existing container image built to the OpenShift Container Initiative (OCI) Image Specification (image-spec) and deploy it.

The PaaS capabilities of OpenShift build on top of the ability to deploy a container image, by providing a way for you to build in OpenShift your own container image direct from your application source code and have it deployed.

The application source code can include a Docker file with instructions to build a container image. Or, you can use a Source-to-Image (S2I) builder, which takes your application source code and converts it into a container image for you, without you needing to know how to write instructions for building a container image.


## New for developers in Red Hat OpenShift 4:

a.) Operators make it easy to get the software you need installed and running quickly. One click, or entry at the command line, is all you need—the Operator will manage it from there.
-------
For example, you might want to use a Kafka cluster for your event-driven application. Instead of creating all of the dependencies, such as ZooKeeper, you can simply use the Operator to create your Kafka instance. All of the dependencies and connections are created for you. There are Operators for event handling, databases, monitoring, and dozens of other aspects. Focus on your code; let the Operator support your efforts.

b.) OpenShift Pipelines with Tekton makes it simple to set up a CI/CD pipeline.
-------
Not just any CI/CD pipeline, but one that is containerised. What does that mean? It means that you don’t provision and configure a server. It means that it runs on demand (thanks to OpenShift Serverless) and sits idle when not used. It means that you define your Tasks and Pipelines in the format that is familiar to you when you work with Kubernetes. It means that you get more work done with less effort.

Tasks can run in parallel and be fed from many sources: a Git repo, a container image, and more. Pipelines can be reused and shared since the resources are externalised. Builds are now a part of your regular OpenShift workflow. The developer can now develop the pipeline as well as the application.

c.) OpenShift Service Mesh allows you to create routes for deployments, mimic errors, establish circuit breakers, and more, without changing your code.
-------
No more external libraries are needed for important micro-services features. With OpenShift Service Mesh you can trace and monitor your code, roll out new versions, change the routing, and even test error handling without ever touching your code. For the developer, this means your well-tested compiled code stays as-is, with no chance of introducing new defects after a build is finished.

d.) The library of VS Code Extensions for OpenShift keeps growing.
-------
You can debug your code, maintain your OpenShift pipelines, launch builds, test, and do every other necessary development activity directly from your VS Code IDE. Tight integration with OpenShift means that you can code, test, and debug locally while deploying to any cloud, anywhere.

e.) Serverless applications are easier than ever thanks to OpenShift Serverless.
-------
OpenShift Serverless takes Knative Serving and makes it easily available and usable to the developer. You can quickly take any application and make it into an on-demand server less application by using OpenShift Serverless. Stateless and stateful applications both work seamlessly and allow you to focus on your existing coding languages and models instead of spending your time learning yet another Functions-as-a-Service implementation.

f.) ‘odo’, the command-line interface for developers.
-------
No more time spent learning how the folks in Operations run your OpenShift cluster. Instead of needing three or four commands that you use over and over, why not simplify? That’s what ‘odo’ does: It provides you, the developer, with a simple command-line tool that relies on convention over configuration, a concept that developers everywhere embrace. It’s the OpenShift tool for developers, made by OpenShift developers.


##Red Hat OpenShift and Kubernetes

What’s the difference?

Red Hat OpenShift is a certified Kubernetes platform and distribution.
In fact, Red Hat OpenShift was one of the first vendor offerings to pass the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Kubernetes conformance assessment.
Red Hat OpenShift was also one of the first Kubernetes solutions to come to market in June 2015, when Red Hat OpenShift 3 was launched.And Red Hat continues to be one of the top contributors to the Kubernetes community.

***Kubernetes is the “kernel”

At CoreOS we considered Kubernetes to be the "kernel" of distributed systems. We recognized that a well designed job scheduler, operating across multiple machines, capable of reconciling the state of managed workloads would naturally foster collaboration much in the same way that the Linux kernel did for the scheduling workloads on a single host. Following this logic, we knew that products would differentiate themselves based on the concerns important to their users.

It’s the same Linux kernel running in many phones, laptops, servers, and even the Raspberry Pi,  albeit with varying degrees of patches to support the hardware the kernel sits directly on.

It's within this same model that it's the same Kubernetes in the various Kubernetes distributions, albeit with varying degrees of patches to support the layer Kubernetes sits directly atop. The Linux distributions that each flavor of Kubernetes is running its workloads on.

***OpenShift is the distribution

This is a powerful distinction. The team behind OpenShift has been proud to produce a distribution of Kubernetes focused on the experience of developers who have the need to develop the next generation of cloud native applications. The team behind Tectonic (the CoreOS distribution of Kubernetes) focused on the experience of administrators and operations teams who needed to quickly remediate issues with the operating system and Kubernetes itself. With the forthcoming release of OpenShift 4.0, we're providing interfaces for both audiences so that we have a platform catering to these specialized needs.

While anyone could build Linux from Scratch by choosing each piece and assembling them in the bespoke manner each user chooses, most do not.  The level of abstraction that most users choose means that they don’t derive a lot of value from managing (or even knowing about) the differences between Util-Linux version 2.31 and 2.33.  To take this a step further, user care about a minimum level of functionality (e.g. they know which commands/APIs will be available as long as they surpass a minimum version number) and then a list of features provided.

This is much the same as OpenShift.  We package Kubernetes and include additional tooling as features that we find important and our users demand.  Much as CoreOS and CentOS contain different sets of tooling, catering to different users, so it is the same with Kubernetes distributions.  At Red Hat we have focused on making available the tools that help make developers and operations teams successful. This is why, for example, we are including Istio as a technology preview in OpenShift now.  We feel it is a tool many users may come to depend on, and thus should be included as table stakes in the base distribution.
   
                                                                                     ****.-----.****




 



