# <div align=center> Recyclerview in Android </div>

RecyclerView makes it easy to accurately display large data sets. You submit information and explain what each item looks like, and the RecyclerView library creates items when needed.

As the name implies, RecyclerView updates those individual items. When an object scratches off the screen, RecyclerView does not spoil its view. Instead, RecyclerView takes advantage of new screen-scripted views. This reuse improves performance, improves your app's responsiveness and reduces power consumption.

Note: In addition to being a category name, RecyclerView is also a library name. On this page, RecyclerView in the code font always refers to the section in the RecyclerView library.

## Key classes

Many different classes work together to build your dynamic list.

- `RecyclerView` is `ViewGroup` containing views associated with your data. The idea itself, so add `RecyclerView` to your layout the way you would add any other UI item.

- Each item in the list is defined by a holding * object. When the view handle is created, it has no related data. After the view handle is created, `RyyclerView` * binds * it to its data. Define the holder by viewing `RecyclerView.ViewHolder`.
- `RecyclerView` requests those views, and binds views to their data, by tapping the paths on the * adapter. * Define the adapter by extending `RecyclerView.Adapter`.

- The * layout manager organizes each item in your list. You can use one of the property managers provided with the RecyclerView library, or you can define your own. Building managers are all based on the `LayoutManager` section.

## Steps for implementing your RecyclerView

If you are going to use RecyclerView, there are a few things you need to do. The following categories will be discussed in more detail.

- First, decide what the list or grid will look like. You will usually be able to use the standard archive managers of the RecyclerView library.

- Create what each item on the list will look like and behave. Depending on the design, expand the `ViewHolder` section. Your `ViewHolder` version provides all the functionality of your listing items. Your watch manager is threatened with views, and that `view` is managed by `RecyclerView`.

- Define `Adapter` that associates your data with `ViewHolder` views.

There are also [advanced customization options](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/layout/recyclerview-custom) that allow you to customize your RecyclerView to your specific needs.
