## MIT LICENSE 

- MIT License is originated from **Massachusetts Institute of Technology** in the late 1980's.
- It is a **permissive** free software license.
- Being a permissive license it puts limited restrictions on Reuse and has high **License Compatibility** .
- Software having MIT License can also be used with Proprietary software which distinguishes it from copyleft software licenses.
- It shows no sign of slowing down.
- A number of opensource uses the MIT License.
- It is also known as EXPAT LICENSE.
- It is similar to BSD(Berkeley Source Distribution) License.
- It is considered more liberal than GNU public license.


> According to the FREE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION(FSF) MIT License should be referred as X11 License because MIT releases allot of Licenses and X11 is the newest version (X and 11 is the windows system). 

## Template of MIT License ##

    Copyright (c) <year<copyright holders

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

> NOTE - Above material is for reference purpose only.
> [reference_of_Template](https://www.techrepublic.com/a/hub/i/r/2013/07/24/726d546c-ce36-4bef-afea-caa9201a7dcc/resize/770x/5050ebeae4a12f076f7ce5c7fbcf6fff/07252013BoudreauxFigure-B.gif) 


## Requirement 

> MIT do not need much requirements as it is permissive license.
> include two things in your copy and/or modification of the code:
> -The original copyright notice
> -A copy of the license itself

## Significance of MIT License

- It offers freedom to it's users.
- Ability to freely redistribute and share
- Users can add more protective Licenses to protect their software. This is also known as SUB LICENSING.
- Ability to chnage and modify the original work.
- MIT is simple to understand and offers the protection and credit that an author needs
- Clear and to-the-points information is being provided by the MIT License.
- Modification , Distribution and Linking are some of the great features.


## Can's of MIT License
- We can use our code for commercial applicants Like if a comapany creates a proprietary piece of software that includes all part of original code and we  can charge money for the software.
- Developer's can change and update the code as per their convinience.
- Organization can distribute and sell copies or modified versions of the code as per the copyright and license in included.
- Sublicensing is allowed which means we can add more and stricter license as per our needs in the same license which has MIT License approved.

>understanding MIT License 
>[cheatsheet_for_MITLicense_reference](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)


