## **Definitions:**


### **Coroutines** 

A coroutine is an instance of suspendable computation. It is conceptually similar to a thread, in the sense that it takes a block of code to run that works concurrently with the rest of the code. However, a coroutine is not bound to any particular thread. It may suspend its execution in one thread and resume in another one.

### **Threads** 

A thread is nothing but a path of execution for your program. You can think of it as the “queue” of the execution of your lines of code. The Java Virtual Machine allows an application to have multiple threads of execution running concurrently. 


 ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________               
 
 ## **Multi-Threading :**

 
 MultiThreading is an important concept and is being required everywhere to carry out tasks concurrently.
 Some tasks could be :
 
 1) Performing a database query.
 2) Making a network Call.

 While executing these requests on a single thread i.e the main thread, you block the thread. This means the thread cannot execute anything else until these tasks have finished executing.

 If the main thread gets blocked, that means views cannot be drawn, click listeners cannot be invoked and Activity's cannot be created until that request has finished.
 
 To ensure a responsive UI, you can create another thread to perform these longer tasks on. These are separate paths of execution which run side by side the main thread. Leaving the main thread to continue to respond to user taps and swipes.
 
 
 
 ## **Callbacks :**
 
 While making a network request, we need some way of knowing from the main/ui thread, that the request has been finished so that we can update the ui, since the ui cannot be update from a background thread.
 
 We can acheive this with a callback, that might look something like this : 
 
                 fun makeRequest(/* ... */) {
                 val call = webService.doNetworkRequest()
                 call.addCallback { result ->
                     when (result) {
                         is NetworkSuccess<String> -> {
                           // do something with result
                           // ..
                         }
                         is NetworkError -> {
                           // handle the error
                           // ..
                         }
                     }
                 }
              }
              
 The problem with callbacks occurs when we have more complicated cases, where we have to make another request on the success of it's prior requests and so on, making it too complex.
 
   
  
  ## **Using Coroutines to overcome Callbacks :**
  
  Coroutines are a Kotlin feature which convert these callbacks for long running tasks into sequential code.
  
  Some points to understand use of coroutine in an easier way : 
  
  1) The keyword "suspend" is Kotlin’s way of marking a function available to coroutines.
  2) When a coroutine calls a function marked suspend, instead of blocking until that function returns, it suspends execution until the result is ready.
  3) Then it will resume where it left off with the result.
  4) While it’s suspended waiting for a result, it unblocks the thread that it’s running on so other executions can take place.
  
  
  Above code using coroutines : 
  
              @UiThread
              fun makeRequest(/* ... */) {
                try {
                  val result = webService.doNetworkRequest()
                  // do something with result
                  // ..
                } catch (error: NetworkException) {
                  // handle the error
                  // ..
                }
              }
              
  
## **Why to use Coroutines Over Threads? :**


Using threads is a simple way to start working with multiple tasks and concurrency, but are not problem-free. A number of problems can arise when you use Thread directly in your code such as :

### 1) Threads require a lot of resources. 

Creating, switching, and managing threads takes up system resources and time limiting the raw number of threads that can be managed at the same time. The costs of creation can really add up.


### 2) Race conditions and unpredictable behavior. 

As the processor switches between sets of instructions on different threads, the exact time a thread is executed and when a thread is paused is beyond your control. 
You can't always expect predictable output when working with threads directly.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

### Conclusion :  

Coroutines overcome all such problems, since it has the ability to store state, so that they can be halted and resumed. 

And therfore, although Creating and using threads for background tasks directly has its place in Android, but Kotlin offers Coroutines which provide a more flexible and easier way to manage concurrency.


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   ## Author
  
  
  [Amaan Ur Rahman](https://github.com/amaan118921)
 
 
 
