## All about FOSSEE Summer Fellowship
There are many free open source softwares available in today's world.These are known as FOSS.In order to provide a great exposure of FOSS to students, IIT Bombay conducts the **Free and Open Source Software (FOSSEE) Summer Fellowship**.
The main aim of the program is to educate students by using FOSS, ie. Free and Open Source Software tools.The FOSSEE Summer Fellowship is a unique and ambitious scheme initiated by the  FOSSEE project, carried out at IIT Bombay. 
FOSSEE Summer Fellowship started in the year 2018 and now continues to happen every year for a period of 6–8 weeks, during the summer.
<hr>

## Eligibility
1. Students from any recognized college of India can apply for the FOSSEE fellowship program. 
2. Students studying any subject from streams such as arts, science, commerce, etcetera can apply for the FOSEE fellowship program. 
3. Students must have passed the minimum class 12th examination. One can be persuing any of the following degrees to pursue the FOSSEE Summer Fellowship:- Bachelors, Masters or PhD programs. 
<hr>

## Application process
1. Visit the official website.
2. Select the “Registration” option.
3. Fill the basic details as asked. On getting registered, candidates will receive the  username and password. 
4. Application form filling-Candidates will be required to provide important details such name, academic detail, course information, contact details and more. 
5. Scholarship Selection- FOSSEE scholarship is offered in various domains. Candidates can choose their desired field by choosing the respective option. 
6. Choose the screening option according to the project applied for (every project has its separate screening test)
7. Complete the respective screening test to apply. 
<hr>

## Selection Criteria 
**project selection** and **academics(merit)**
<hr>

## Few tips regarding FOSSEE Summer Fellowship
1. The maximum limit of the fellowship is eight weeks. 
2. The selected candidates will get to work on the development of various Open Source (Hardware/Software).
3. The fellowship program is conducted in IIT Bombay. So the shortlisted students are supposed to port to college.  
4. The final decision will be in the hands of the FOSSEE selection team. 
5. Students desirous of getting selected for this Fellowship have to learn a Free/Libre and Open Source Software (FLOSS) and complete some screening tasks.

## TimeLine
| Event     |  Date |
|------------|------------|
| Registrations and Submission opens on |   17 April 2021 |
| Last date for Registration            |   05 May 2021    |
| Last date for Submission              |   15 May 2021  |
| Announcement of the Fellowship results |      Last Week of May 2021 |

**Commencement of Fellowship will be tentatively from 01 June 2021.**

**For more info** [Click Here](https://www.iitb.ac.in/en/event/fossee-summer-fellowship-2021)
