# How to use Column and Row Widgets for Layout

It's all very well and good using a container to layout a single widget, such as a piece of text or an image. And we can define its padding, its margin, its size, its background colour etc... But what if you had lots of different things that you want to lay out? 

In that case, you need something that can take lots of child, and not just a single one. And the easiest way to do this is using columns and rows so that we can lay out our widgets in a vertical direction or a horizontal direction, and determine how they should be sized.  Rows go horizontal, columns will go vertical. 

Let's go ahead and create a column of our own. 

So here's Container 1, and it's orange. Instead of having the child of our safe area, So what's inside our safe area being just a container, And instead, the child is going to be a column. Now a column crucially doesn't have a child. It has children because we can put lots of things inside our column. And it's got this square bracket. We can put lots of widgets in between these square brackets. Let's leave our first container and let's build another container as the second child of our column. Now this container is again going to have a width of 100 and a height of 100. Let us also give our container a colour so that we can see it. So let's change this to a white colour. I'm going to give this a child which is a piece of text, and I'm going to tell it to write the words 'Container 2'. So we have container 1 and container 2. And I'm simply going to copy this container to create a third one. And our third one is going to be green. And it's going to be container 3. So now we have three containers all 100 by 100. All with different colours, and it's being laid out in a vertical direction. This is because we have all the containers inside a column. Now our columns will automatically try and take up as much of the vertical space as possible. So if we go into Flutter Inspector and we check out what the column looks like, you can see it's this box right here. It's trying to take up all of the space that is available vertically. But horizontally, it's limiting itself to the size of its children. 

We can change this. We can change its mainAxisSize, and the main axis for a column is of course vertical. So let's change this to the minimum size. And you can see how the column shrinks to be the size that's only required to fit my three containers, all of its children.

Currently, our column is laying out its children from top to bottom, so Now what if we wanted to go the other direction instead? Well, we can change its vertical direction. We can either change it to go up, which means it goes from the bottom to the top. 

Or we can change it as down, which is the default, where it goes from top to bottom. 

Now what if you didn't want to change the direction of it, but instead you wanted to change the spacing between our containers. Well then you would use something called mainAxisAlignment, and by default, all of our containers are aligned to the start. So it's mainAlignment.start. And this will try and place the children as close to the start of the main axis as possible. 

However, we can also change it to an end. So if we had MainAxisAlignment.end then our containers will all be bunched down here, towards the end of our main axis. 

Now you can also move it all to the centre. And you can use a variety of these to determine how you want your screen to be laid out. 

Now, what if we didn't want all of our children to be bunched together like this, at the centre at the start or the end. What if we wanted them to be spread out a bit  Well we can use something that's called 'spaceEvenly.' And this will calculate the amount of free space that the column has, and it'll space all of our children evenly throughout the column. 

But what if we wanted something to be at the start and something to be at the bottom, and then another one in the centre? Well, we would then use spaceBetween instead. 

Now, what if I wanted to change the way that my containers are aligned on the horizontal axis? Well in this case, instead of using the main axis alignment property, I would be using something called the cross axis alignment. And this is a cross or perpendicular to the main axis. So for columns, they'll be the horizontal. Now here, I also have access to the start CrossAxisAlignment, and also end CrossAxisAlignment. But you'll notice that if I just go ahead and put this in, and I hit save to hot reload, nothing happens on the horizontal axis. And the reason for this is that my axis alignment is trying to align with my children. So that means that say, if I had a much wider child, let's say 300 across, then all of my children will align themselves to the right edge of each other. But if they're all the same size, then they're already aligned on the end, so they won't pop over to the right side.

Now if you wanted all your three containers to go over to the right, one way of doing this might be creating simply an invisible container, where you give it a width of infinity, and to give it a width of infinity, we write double.infinity And what this will do is it will create a container down here. It has no height. So it's just got a width, and it's as wide as the screen will allow it to be. 

So if I give it a small height so that you can see it more easily, in this case, it's just this last bit. It doesn't have a colour. So it's completely invisible but it pushes all of our children to the right because we're now all aligning to the end of our column on the horizontal axis and one of our containers is as wide as the screen allows. 

Now, What if instead of doing this, you wanted actually to stretch all your containers, so that they fill the entire width? Now you could provide width for each of the containers, to be double.infinity So let's change the width to So now, all of my containers will stretch to the entire width that's possible. 

But there's a much easier way of doing this actually, by using a property that comes with our column. And instead of using Cross AxisAlignment.end, we can use CrossAxisAlignment.stretch. And this will stretch our children so that they can be the best versions of themselves, or in this case, actually stretch them across the screen. I no longer need to provide a width property for my containers because it's being stretched by its parent, the column. 

Now what if you wanted a little bit of spacing between your containers. Because at the moment, they're all right next to each other with no space in between. Well if you knew exactly how much space you want to have between your containers, you can use a Sized box. And a sized box can have a height and width of course. But in the case of where it's being put inside a column, which is aligned vertically, then we only really need to provide a height. So we can give it a height of 20, and leave its width property as zero. And you can see, this goes in here between container 1 and container 2, and gives us a little bit of spacing between those two things. And it helps us when we want a little bit of space between our children. 

Now, everything that I've spoken about columns also applies to rows. So in fact, I can straight up just change our column to a row, and you'll see it does the same thing on the horizontal axis. So in this case though, we're saying that the cross axis alignment. So for a row, the main axis of is of course horizontal but the cross axis alignment. So the vertical alignment has to be stretched so all our containers are stretched vertically. And for all the children, they each have a height which doesn't get taken into account anymore because it's being stretched, but we can also give it a width for example. So let's say we give it a width of 30 for the first one. You can see that gets affected because my containers are being aligned on the horizontal axis. Now you can see that my sized box disappeared because I'm giving it a height but that doesn't matter when it doesn't have a width. So in a row, to give it space, we're gonna be using a sized box with a width to give it a little bit of spacing. So the best way of getting to know columns and rows and containers is really to try it out for yourself. 

Now while you're playing around with this, as humans, we tend to be quite visual. And it's usually easier for us to see what something will do before actually writing out the code. So I recommend pulling up this Flutter layout cheat sheet that's created by Tomek.