# Searching  in a Linked List

## **Linear Search**

</br>

## **Algorithm:**

</br>

### 1) Initialize a node pointer, current = head

### 2) Do following while current is not NULL

    a) current->key is equal to the key being searched ,return true.
    b) current = current->next

### 3) Return false

</br>

## **Iterative Implementation of the above approach**

</br>

## Including the necessary header files:-

    #include <bits/stdc++.h>
    using namespace std; 

</br>

## Creating the Node Structure:-

    class Node 
    { 
    public:
    int data; 
    Node* next; 
    }; 

    //Constructor Function to Initialize a new Node:

    Node(int x){
        data = x;
        next = NULL;
    }

</br>

## Search Function:-

    bool Search(Node*head , int val){
        Node* current = head;

        while(current != NULL){
            if(current -> data == val){
                return true;
            }
        }
        return false;
    }

</br>

### In the search function we are traversing the linked list and comparing value of each node with the value that we need to find .If any of the linked list nodes value matches with the given val then we will return true. Otherwise we will return false if the function doesn't returns true for any value

</br>

## Main function:-

    int main(){
        //Creating a Linked list manually
        Node* head = new Node(1);
        head -> next = new Node(2);
        head -> next -> next = new Node(3);
        head -> next -> next -> next = new Node(4);

        //Taking input for the value to find (val):

        val = 2;
        Search(head , 2);
        //The above call will return true

        val =6;
        Search(head, 6);
        //The above function call will return false
    }

</br>

## Lets Do the Dry run of the above approach:-

</br>

### Let the Linked List be

    1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 5 -> 6 -> NULL
    //head of the linked list will be pointing to 1

### Let the value which we need to find be

    4

### Calling the Search() and passing head of the linked list and  the value which we need to find as parameters

    Search(head , 4) 
    // Here head would be pointing to 1
    //The value which we need to find here is 4, paased as the second parameter here.

    Initially current would be pointing to node with value 1
    Now entering the while loop:

    First Iteration :-
      current -> val = 1, which is not equal to the value  which  we need to find that is 4
      =>Now current would be pointing to the node with val 2

    Second Iteration :-
      current -> val = 2, which is not equal the value which we need to find that is 4
      =>Now current would be pointing to node with val 3

    Third Iteration : - 
      current -> val = 3, which is not equal the value which we need to find that is 4
      =>Now current would be pointing to node with val 4

    Fourth Iteration :-
      current -> val = 4,which is equal to the value which we need to find.
      

    We will return true here as the value which we need to find is present in the linked list and we have found that.

## Time complexity and Space Complexity:-

    Time Complexity : O(n)
    Here n is the number of nodes. 
    Space Complexity : O(1)
    Auxiliary Space : O(1)

</br>

#

## **Binary Search**

Note  : To apply Binary Search to a Linked List the values of the node should be strictly increasing.


To perform a Binary Search Algorithm on Singly Linked Lists, determination of the middle element is important. Binary Search is fast and efficient because accessing the middle element is fast. In arrays, binary search takes O(1) time to access middle element. But memory allocation for the singly linked list is non-contiguous, which makes finding the middle element difficult and time consuming.

If we follow sequential access of Linked List, then it will take O(N) time to find the middle element. With this, the overall time complexity of Binary Search on Linked List will become O(N * logN).

This is even slower than Linear Search.

Therefore to make the time complexity O(N) ,I will be using two-pointer approach.

Node structure for the singly Linked List would be same as was there in Linear Search.

</br>

## Finding the middle element of the Linked List Using two-pointer approach

    1)Made two pointers let it be named fast and slow ,and initialize both of them with the head of the linked list.
    2)Move the fast  pointer by 2 steps and slow pointer by 1 step in each iteration.
    3)When fast pointer reaches the end of the Linked List ,the slow pointer would be pointing to middle of the Linked List.
    4)Return the reference of the slow pointer.

## Code for finding the middle of the Linked List

    // Function that i would be using to find the middle of the Linked List.
    //Here i have passed reference to the nodes for which the middle element is required. 

    Node* middle(Node* start, Node* end) 
    { 

    // if start points to NULL means the linked list is empty betweeen the two nodes so we will be returning NULL
    if (start == NULL) 
        return NULL; 
    

    //Initializing two pointers slow and fast.
    Node* slow = start; 
    Node* fast = start -> next; 
  
    while (fast != end) 
    { 
        // fast is moved one step ahead
        fast = fast -> next; 

        // if fast is not the last element
        if (fast != end)
        { 
            // slow pointer is moved one step ahead
            slow = slow -> next; 
            // fast pointer is moved second step ahead
            fast = fast -> next; 
        } 

    } 
    //After the while loop ends the slow pointer would be pointing to middle of the linked list that is between start and last pointer.

    return slow; 

    } 

## Binary Search Algorithm

    1)Make two pointers start and end.
    2)Initially start would be pointing to the head of the Linked List and the end to NULL.
    3)Then find the middle of the Linked List with the approach discussed above.
    4)If the value that is stored at the middle of the linked List is same as the key that we need to find then simply return true.And function call would end here.
    5)Else if the value that is stored in the middle is small than the key to be found then we have to search in the right side of the middle pointer. Thus now we wil be pointing to the next of the middle element.
    6)Else if the value that is stored in the middle element is greater than the key to find than we need to find in the left side of the Linked List. Thus we will make the end pointer point to the middle.
    6)If the key is found or we have traversed the entire Linked List then we will break the loop.

## Code for Binary Search

    Node* binarySearch(Node *head, int key) 
    { 
    Node* start = head; 
    Node* end = NULL; 
    
    do
    { 
        // calling middle function to find middle element in the rage of start to end
        Node* mid = middle(start, last); 
  
        // If middle element is empty 
        if (mid == NULL) 
            return NULL; 
  
        // If value is present at middle, we return it
        if (mid -> data == key) 
            return mid; 
  
        // If value is more than mid 
        else if (mid -> data < key) 
            start = mid -> next; 
  
        // If the value is less than mid. 
        else
            end = mid; 
  
    } while (last == NULL || last != start); 
  
    // value not present, so we return NULL
    return NULL; 
    }   

## Dry Run

### Let the Linked List Be

    1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 5 -> 6 -> 7 -> NULL
    // 1 is the head od the linked list

### Let the element we need to find is

    7

### Calling the binarySearch() with the initial arguments as head and 7 (The element that we need to find)

    binarySearch(head ,7);

    Initially start = head = 1
    Initially end = NULL

    First Iteration :
      mid = node with value 4 
      4  < 7 => We need to search in the right side of mid
      start = mid->next = 5
      end = NULL

    Second Iteration : 
      mid = node with value 6
      6 < 7 => We need to search in the right side of mid
      start = mid -> next = 6
      end = NULL

    Third Iteration : 
      mid = node with value 7
      7 == 7 :  Element is found
      return 7;
      Therefore the a node with a value to be searched in the linked list . Thus we return the reference to that node.

    //Function gets over here.

## Complexity  Analysis

    Time complexity : O(N)
    //N is the number of nodes in the linked list.

    Space Complexity : O(1)
    Auxiliary Space : O(1)

## References

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/
